[A smoky cube shaped object emerges, The Tesseract filling the screen with darkness. We see a throne room in space, we see a clothed figure, the other]

The Other: The tesseract has awakened It is on a little world, a little human world, they would wield it's power

[The Other faces an armored figure with a horned helmet, he is Loki of Asgard, Loki is handed a scepter, the Chitauri scepter long, golden with a blue gem]

The Other: But our ally knows it's workings as they never will, he is ready to lead. And our force the Chitauri will follow

[Ten of Thousands of CHITAURI stand ready in a seething mass of neat rows and columns, the ground simply QUAKES.]

The Other: (V.O.)The world will be his. The universe yours. And the humans, what can they do but burn?

[PROJECT P.E.G.A.S.U.S FACILITY ​- NIGHT Out in the NEW MEXICO desert]

[a remote research facility is in a state of panic. It's an evacuation. A swooping helicopter flies in. it is chaos Men in suits run around, getting everything they need Soldiers on foot jump onto Humvees, accelerating the hell out of there. A voice speak from the hidden loudspeakers.

Helicopter landing pad, Standing a few yards from the landing pad, Agent Phil Coulson in a suit with badass shades, peers at the helicopter as it lands. Walking out of the helicopter is Agent Maria Hill the deputy director of SHIELD following her is Nick Fury director of SHIELD, the two approach Coulson]

Nick Fury: How bad is it?

Phil Coulson: That's the problem sir we don't know

[Cut to inside the facility Agent Coulson leads Hill and Fury through the radiation section of the facility. Hundreds of technicians and other staff run around, taking only the essentials.]

Phil Coulson: Dr. Selvig read an energy surge from the Tesseract four hours ago.

Nick Fury: NASA didn't authorize Selvig to test phase.

Phil Coulson: He wasn't testing it, he wasn't even in the room. Spontaneous event.

Maria Hill: (Disbelief) It just turned itself on?

Nick Fury: What are the energy levels now?

Phil Coulson: Climbing. When Selvig couldn't shut it down, we ordered the evac.

Nick Fury: How long to get everyone out?

Phil Coulson: Campus should be clear in the next half hour.

Nick Fury: Do Better

[Coulson nods and walks away

Hill and Fury continue walking]

Maria Hill: Sir, evacuation may be futile.

Nick Fury: (sarcasm) We should tell them to go back to sleep?

Maria Hill: If we can't control the Tesseract's energy, there may not be a minimum safe distance.

Nick Fury: I need you to make sure Phase 2 prototypes are shipped out.

Maria Hill: (confused) Sir, is that really a priority right now?

Nick Fury: (Serious) Until such a time as the world ends, we will act as though it intends to spin on. Clear out the tech below. Every piece of Phase 2 on a truck and gone.

Maria Hill: (Deadpanned) Yes sir. (to two agents nearby) With me.

[Nick Fury enters a lab surrounded by scientist who are leaving as quick as they can, leaving only the required people in the lab]

Nick Fury: Talk to me doctor

[Erik Selvig appears from behind a machine]

Erik Selvig: Director

[Erik walks over to Fury]

Nick Fury: Is there anything we know for certain?

Erik Selvig: (Serious) The Tesseract is misbehaving.

Nick Fury: (deadpan) Is that supposed to be funny?

Erik Selvig: No, it's not funny at all. The Tesseract is not only active, she's... misbehaving.

Nick Fury: I assume you pulled the plug

[Fury and Erik walk, Selvig goes to a computer]

Erik Selvig: She's an energy source. If we turn off the power, she turns it back on. If she reaches peak level...

Nick Fury: We've prepared for this doctor. Harnessing energy from space.

Erik Selvig: (looking up from his computer) We don't have the harness. Our calculations are far from complete. Now she's throwing off interference, radiation. Nothing harmful, low levels of gamma radiation.

Nick Fury: (unimpressed) That can be harmful. Where's Barton?

Erik Selvig: (scoffs) The Hawk? Up in his nest, as usual

[We cut to Agent Clint Barton, dressed in black tactical gear, up on the railings observing from above. As Fury calls Barton on his earpiece.]

Nick Fury: Agent Barton report

[Clint Barton rappels down from the catwalk, and walks up to Fury. They both walk around the bottom of the facility in a discreet manner.]

Nick Fury: I gave you this mission so you could keep a close eye on things

Clint Barton: Well I see better from a distance

[Fury and Clint continue walking]

Nick Fury: Are you seeing anything that might set this thing off?

[They walk to the Tesseract machine]

Nasa Scientist: Doctor, It's spiking again

[Selvig walks over and begins typing]

Clint Barton: No one's come or gone. Slevig's is clean. No contacts, no I.M.s. If there was any tampering, sir, it wasn't at this end.

Nick Fury: (confused) At this end?

Clint Barton: Yeah the cube it's a doorway to space right? Well doors open from both sides

[Dr. Erik Selvig types on his keyboard]

Erik Selvig: (quietly) Not yet

[The monitor flashes. Suddenly, the Tesseract thunders and shakes the entire facility. Both Agent Coulson nearby, and Maria Hill topside and both look upwards, feel the tremors. The cube glows brighter and emits a ring of light, and builds like a beam, similar to the Bifrost bridge. The power hits the edge of the platform, and begins to form a vortex, which becomes a portal. Space appears through the portal, and a gust of blue energy knocks people back. The cloud shoots to the ceiling, and the portal on the platform opens up as Loki steps through. The portal vanishes, and Loki grins at everyone, holding his spear. He frowns as he sees them looking at him.]

Nick Fury: Sir please put down the spear.

[Loki responds with firing a blast of blue energy from his spear, while Barton narrowly tackles Fury out of the way, the two barely miss getting hit. Everyone shoots at Loki, but the bullets deflect off of him. Loki immediately takes down everyone shooting at him easily, with knives and energy blasts from his scepter. Barton commando rolls out of the way. Loki pauses, grinning, and looks to who will attack him next. Barton attempts to attack him, but Loki grabs his wrist, disarming him.]

Loki: You have heart.

[Loki places the tip of the spear against Barton's chest. Barton's eye glow black, and he stops resisting. Loki begins controlling other agents around the room. Fury sneak up, grabs the Tesseract, and places it in a briefcase, trying to sneak out.]

Loki: Please don't. I still need that.

Nick Fury: (turning to face Loki) This doesn't have to get any messier.

Loki: Of course it does. I've come too far for anything else. I am Loki of Asgard, and I am burdened with glorious purpose.

Erik Selvig: (looking up from checking on the scientist Loki killed) Loki? Brother of Thor?

Nick Fury: We have no quarrel with your people.

Loki: An ant had no quarrel with a boot.

Nick Fury: You planning to step on us?

Loki: I come with glad tidings, of a world made free.

Nick Fury: Free from what?

Loki: Freedom. Freedom is life's great lie. Once you accept that, in your heart...

[Loki turns to face Selvig who's standing behind him and places his spear against Selvig's heart. Selvig's eyes glow black.]

Loki: You will know peace

[Loki turns to face Fury]

Nick Fury: Yeah you say peace I kind of think you mean the other thing

[The Tesseract cloud is building and getting worse, Barton looks up and walks over to Loki]

Clint Barton: Sir, director Fury is stalling. This place is about to blow. Drop a hundred feet of rock on us. (looks at Fury) He means to bury us.

Nick Fury: Like the Pharaoh's of Old

[Erik Selvig is typing on a computer]

Erik Selvig: He's right The portal is collapsing in on itself. We've got about 2 minutes before this goes critical

[Loki looks at Clint]

Loki: Well then

[Clint without hesitation shoots Fury and grabs the Tesseract case and walks out with other controlled SHIELD personal]

Clint Barton: (pointing to the ute's) I need these vehicles

[Maria Hill looks around her radio crackling she see Barton and Loki and the other personal]

Maria Hill: (confused) Who's that?

Clint Barton: (not turning) He didn't tell me

[Rock's crumble around them

Maria turns to walk away]

Nick Fury: (on Hill's radio) Hill

[Loki turns and looks at her]

Nick Fury: Do you copy?

[Nick pulls the bullet out, her radio crackles and she looks at it]

Nick Fury: Barton has turned

[Maria turns around quickly only to see Barton shooting at her, she dives out of the way and Barton shoots at her as he jumps down and gets into the drivers seat and begins to drive away, with Selvig in the passenger seat she shoots at the car's]

Nick Fury: (into radio and walking out of the lab) they got the tesseract shut them down

[Maria Hill throws her radio into one ute and jumps in and chases Barton, we see Loki in the tray watching, he fires a blast and Hill is forced to keep her distance plus killing an agent in the process. In the lab, Fury is racing against the clock as pipes burst around him. The walls are cracking, and the facility is suffering an internal earthquake, agent Coulson is cases, and trips down the stairs while the ground shudders. Others with him drop cases full of information and equipment, the agents go to pick it up]

Phil Coulson: No! Leave it, go!

[They all run in fear of their lives, they jump into a jeep]

Phil Coulson: (into radio) Director Fury. You're clear, sir! You need to go!

[With that acknowledgement Fury runs out and too a helicopter which just makes it as the ground sinks, Maria Hill is still chasing Barton, she shoots through her windscreen and his windscreen he returns to favor when Loki blasts part of the cave causing it to collapse in on itself and Hill Ute to become stuck. The Tesseract's energy cloud now shrinks into a small ball of white light, hovering in the air. In a flash of blue light, the facility is consumed along with its surroundings. Fury watches from below as a rapid build up into an implosion. Several miles away, Agent Coulson's van jolts from the blast wave on the horizon behind them. The entire facility implodes with terrifying magnitude, and the implosion rocks the ground. Maria Hill is stuck, her jeep behind as the full force of the blast tears down on the tunnel, covering herself by being inside of the jeep, light from the night spilling in close by. Barton's truck drives away, but Fury's helicopter hovers over it, and Fury opens fire with his pistol. Loki, in a fit of rage, fires an energy blast at the helicopter. The helicopter is skimmed my the blast, but catches fire. He jumps out of the flaming helicopter seconds before it hits the ground and shreds itself into debris. Fury stands back up, dazed, and shoots at Loki, but they're too far away.]

Phil Coulson: (over a walkie talkie) Director? Director Fury, do you copy?

Nick Fury: The tesseract is with the hostile force. I have men down. Hill?

Maria Hill: (climbing out of the wreckage of her jeep) A lot of men still under, don't know how many survivors.

[From the ground, Fury surveys the wreckage.]

Nick Fury: Sound the general call. I want every living soul not working rescue looking for that briefcase.

Maria Hill: [using a walkie talkie] Roger that.

Nick Fury: Coulson, get back to base. This is a Level Seven. As of right now, we are at war.

Phil Coulson: What do we do?

[Nick Fury looks up, a thought on his mind.]

THE AVENGERS

[We end up in Russia. There is a building, a warehouse, next to some unfinished railroad tracks under construction. The building is only occupied by Georgi Luchkov, a Russian general, and two thugs, with a prisoner amongst them, she is Natasha Romanoff, tied to a chair in a black dress. The taller thug is in the middle of hitting the spy, she grunts and tilts her head back removing the hair from her face. They have a conversation in Russian]

General Luchkov: (in Russian) This is not how I wanted the evening to go.

Natasha Romanoff: (In Russian) I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.

[The taller thug pushes her chair back, tilting it over the edge of a few story drop, and Natasha hides her fear.]

Natasha Romanoff: (In Russian) I thought General Solohob was in charge of the export business.

General Luchkov: Solohob? Your outdated information betrays you. The famous Black Widow. Nothing but a pretty face.

Natasha Romanoff: (raising an eyebrow) You really think I'm pretty?

[Luchkov walks over to a table filled with tools of torture and interrogation, picking up a pair of pliers. The tall thug next to her forces her jaw open.]

General Luchkov: Tell him, We do not need the Lermontov to transfer the tanks. Tell him he's out well...

[He shows her pliers ready to remove her teeth]

General Luchkov: (in English) You may have to write it down.

[A phone rings, and thug 1 looks to Natasha's phone in confusion. He picks it up.]

Thug 1: Da? [He looks to Luchkov.] It's for you.

General Luchkov: you listen here...

Phil Coulson: You're at 1-14 Solenski plaza 3rd floor we have an F-22 exactly 8 miles out, but the woman on the phone or I will blow up the block before you make it to the lobby

[He places the phone at Natasha's ear who balances it on her shoulder, she is confused]

Phil Coulson: We need you to come in

Natasha Romanoff: Are you kidding me I'm working

Phil Coulson: This takes precedence

Natasha Romanoff: I'm in the middle of an interrogation this moron is giving me everything

[Luchkov looks at the henchmen]

General Luckov: I don't give everything

[Natasha gives him a look that says 'you sure about that?']

Natasha Romanoff: Look you can't pull me out of this right now

Phil Coulson: Natasha (seen switches to Phil on the Helicarrier) Barton's been compromised

[Natasha's face darkens]

Natasha Romanoff: Let me put you on hold

[She nods to Luchkov who takes the phone, she kicks him where no man wants to be injured he falls to the floor and she headbutts him knocking him out, she stands up still tied to the chair and knees one henchman and hits the other with her chair, she does a roll and stands up and places the chair onto his foot and smacks the back of her head against his nose she knocks him down with the chair, she kicks the other one, and on the helicarrier Phil is casually listening probably thinking about lunch and what he is gonna have, how to get Barton back and who is going to inform the former agent Laura Barton? back with Natasha she jumps off one and breaks the chair on the other with a part of the chair back still attached one of the henchmen tires to restrain her from behind, she bends their arm in an unnatural position, and hits him the peice of chair, she then kicks off of his chest does a springboard and flips back up using the momentum she has gained she runs and does the flying scissor leg takedown move she loves so much, knocking him out, she glares and then turns to Luchkov, she grabs the the chain Luchkov begins to stand and she knocks his head on a metal railing causing him to fall back and she wraps the chain around his ankle letting him dangle, she grabs her shoes and phone and begins to walk away, we see a hole in her tights]

Natasha Romanoff: Where's Barton now?

Phil Coulson: We don't know.

Natasha Romanoff: But he's alive.

Phil Coulson: We think so. (Coulson looks at an old mission with Black Widow and Hawkeye more than likely Budapest) I'll brief you on everything when you get back. But first, we need you to talk to the big guy.

Natasha Romanoff: Coulson, you know that Stark only trusts me about as far as he can throw me.

Phil Coulson: No, I've got Stark. You get the big guy.

Natasha Romanoff: [pausing and looking back at the fighting she did, Russian.] My god

[We are now in India where a little girl runs through the crowded streets, she runs to a makeshift hospital and up the stairs a man exclaims in Hindi and a woman most likely a nurse sees her and looks in worry]

Attending woman: (Hindi) Who are you? Get out, there is sickness here

[Banner watches in the background]

Little Girl: You're a doctor (continues in Hindi) My fathers not waking up, he has a fever and he is moaning

[Banner walks over and crouches down and speaks Hindi]

Bruce Banner: (Hindi) Slow down, is he like them?

[Banner points to a child and his father who coughs]

Little Girl: (Holding out money) Please

[Banner and the little girl run to the edge of the city when a government car passes them Banner stops the girl and turns, the two then walk into a shack where Banner sees the girl escape through a window]

Bruce Banner: Should have got paid upfront Banner

Natasha Romanoff: [Entering the room behind him, making Banner turn around.] You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle.

Bruce Banner: Avoiding stress isn't the secret.

Natasha Romanoff: (sarcasm) Then, what is it? Yoga?

Bruce Banner: You brought me to the edge of the city, smart. I uh... (looks out the window and sees nothing) assume the whole place is surrounded?

Natasha Romanoff: (removing her scarf) Just you and me.

Bruce Banner: And your actress buddy, is she a spy too? Do they start that young?

Natasha Romanoff: (uncomfortable, slightly nervous) I did.

Bruce Banner: Who are you?

Natasha Romanoff: Natasha Romanoff.

Bruce Banner: (on guard) Are you here to kill me, Miss Romanoff? Because that's not gonna work out for everyone.

Natasha Romanoff: (making her point clear) No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.

Bruce Banner: (Slightly annoyed) SHIELD. How did they find me?

Natasha Romanoff: (as if pointing out the obvious) We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.

Bruce Banner: Why?

Natasha Romanoff: Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.

Bruce Banner: What if I said no?

Natasha Romanoff: (tad seductive) I'll persuade you.

Bruce Banner: (slightly sad) And what if the... other guy says no?

Natasha Romanoff: (getting to the point) You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.

Bruce Banner: [gently pushing a cradle] I don't always get what I want.

Natasha Romanoff: Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.

Bruce Banner: Well, those I actively try to avoid.

Natasha Romanoff: This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet.

[She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.]

Bruce Banner: What does Fury want me to do? Swallow it?

Natasha Romanoff: Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.

Bruce Banner: So Fury isn't after the monster?

Natasha Romanoff: Not that he's told me.

Bruce Banner: And he tells you everything?

Natasha Romanoff: Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.

Bruce Banner: He needs me in a cage?

Natasha Romanoff: No one's gonna put you in a...

Bruce Banner: STOP LYING TO ME! [Banner slams his fists onto the table]

[Natasha grabs a gun from under the table in one swift movement, she obviously placed it there before Banner came in, she points it at him her eyes glazed over slightly]

Bruce Banner: I'm sorry, that was mean. I just wanted to see what you'd do. Why don't we do this the easy way, where you don't use that, and the other guy doesn't make a mess? Okay? Natasha...

[Natasha doesn't lower her gun thinking, she finally lowers it and speaks into her earpiece]

Natasha Romanoff: (on her earpiece) Stand down. We're good here.

[Dozens of agents armed to have surrounded the small house, but at her signal they back off a bit.]

Bruce Banner: (smiles back at Natasha) Just you and me?

[Natasha has the decency to look embarrassed at being caught]

[we are now in a SHIELD analytical room, filled with monitors of partially silhouetted people. Fury stands in the middle, frowning. They make up the World Security Council.]

Councilmen 1: Director SHIELD operates under the world security council we should have been informed of all the details

Nick Fury: The Council's interest in our work has always been about results not procedure

Councilmen 2: Agent Clint Barton is intimate with SHIELD procedure I believe and now we learn he is working with the enemy

[Fury frowns looking down wondering who told them most definitely not Natasha or Coulson chances are it was Hill]

Councilmen 2: A man whose talent appears to be...

[Fury cuts councilmen 2 off]

Nick Fury: killing, but he didn't kill me, he didn't go for the headshot he's been brainwashed but I won't write him off we're on Loki's trail, we're scrambling a response team

Councilwomen: (spiteful) the avengers

Councilmen 1: The Avengers initiative was shut down director it was a volatile concept at the best of time which this is not

Nick Fury: (lying) this is just a response team

Councilwomen: (snapping) I suggest you make you're response rapid we all know what's at stake

[the screen turns off]

Nick Fury: (to himself) yes we do


[We are now in a Brooklyn gym at night. Occupied by one man, beating a punching bag in the gym lights, alone in the floor, lost in the fight. Steve Rogers. He beats the bag harder trying to get rid of the memories that invade his mind

we see a WWII flashback

we see a Hydra base, Captain America is running through a forest, dodging mortar shells, gunfire and Tesseract energy blasts.]

Steve Rogers: (Echoey) There's not enough time! I gotta put her in the water!

[In the present, Steve's punches become harder and more violent.

in the flashback, Steve places the compass he has, featuring a picture of Peggy Carter, on the dash as the plane plummets towards the ice.

The present, his punches become violent and aggressive.]

Peggy Carter: [flashback voice] You won't be alone.

[Red Skull picked up the Tesseract, and vanishes.

We are back in the present Steve is breathing the bag with everything he has.]

SHIELD scientist: (flashback) Oh my god!

[Steve is lying on a table, half frozen, and still partially trapped in a slab of ice. Two SHIELD scientists run equipment over him, checking for his vitals.]

SHIELD Scientist: This guy is still alive!

[We are back in the present. Steve punched the bag, easily a hundred pounds, across the room with one swing snapping the metal chain and pummeling it back a dozen feet, sand spilling out from where he cracked the fabric. He stands up, breathing hard, and grabs another bag, resuming a more normal routine. Fury walks in.]

Nick Fury: (not at all worried) Trouble sleeping?

Steve Rogers: (pointing out the obvious) I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.

Nick Fury: (giving idea) Then you should be out, celebrating, seeing the world.

[Steve stops punching and walks over to the bench, unraveling the tape off his hands. He sits down.]

Steve Rogers: I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.

Nick Fury: We've made some mistakes along the way. Some very recently.

Steve Rogers: You here with a mission, sir?

Nick Fury: (walking towards steve) I am.

Steve Rogers: Trying to get me back in the world?

Nick Fury: Trying to save it.

[Fury hands Steve a file on the Tesseract, along with other files on HYDRA'S projects, Steve reads it]

Steve Rogers: Hydra's secret weapon.

Nick Fury: Howard Stark fished that out of the ocean when he was looking for you. He thought what we think, the Tesseract could be the key to unlimited sustainable energy. That's something the world sorely needs.

Steve Rogers: Who took it from you?

[Steve hands the file back to Fury]

Nick Fury: He's called Loki. (Nick hesitates) He's not from around here. There's a lot we'll have to bring you up to speed on if you're in. The world has gotten even stranger than you already know.

Steve Rogers: At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.

Nick Fury: Ten bucks says you're wrong. There's a debriefing package waiting for you back at your apartment.

[Steve turns and picks up a punching bag. Steve starts walking out of the gym.]

Nick Fury: Is there anything you can tell us about the Tesseract that we ought to know now?

Steve Rogers: (bluntly) You should have left it in the ocean.

[We now see Tony Stark, in his Iron Man suit, is cutting a pipeline transport with a laser cutter coming from his hand in the ocean. He then places a Stark Energy Core. It lights up. Iron Man flies out of the water and flies towards Stark Tower]

Tony Stark: You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.

Pepper Potts: [on the other line] You disconnected the transition lines? Are we off the grid?

Tony Stark: Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.

Pepper Potts: Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over, and it actually works?

[we see inside the suit, Pepper's face appears on the monitor.]

Tony Stark: I assume. Light her up. [Iron Man flies to the Stark Tower Building, the power is switched on the Stark sign lights up]

Pepper Potts: How does it look?

Tony Stark: (smiling) Like Christmas but with more (tilts his head to the side slightly) me

Pepper Potts: We've go to go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I'm in DC tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next three buildings.

Tony Stark: Pepper, you're killing me. Remember the moment? Enjoy the moment.

[Tony arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his Iron Man suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.]

Pepper Potts: Then get in here and I will

JARVIS: Sir, Agent Coulson of SHIELD is on the line.

Tony Stark: I'm not in. I'm actually out.

JARVIS: Sir, I'm afraid he's insisting.

Tony Stark: Grow a spine, Jarvis. I got a date.

[Pepper Potts stares up at the monitors of the reactor device. As Tony walks in]

Pepper Potts: Levels are holding steady... I think.

Tony Stark: Of course they are I was directly involved, which leads me to my next question: How does it feel to be a genius?

Pepper Potts: Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?

Tony Stark: What do you mean?

[Tony gestures to the tower and everything in it]

Tony Stark: All this came from you.

Pepper Potts: No. All this came from that.

[Pepper taps the energy in his chest plate.]

Tony Stark: Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.

Pepper Potts: Twelve percent?

[The two sat down and Pepper began pouring champagne]

Tony Stark: An argument can be made for fifteen.

Pepper Potts: (Annoyed) Twelve percent? For my baby?

Tony Stark: Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.

Pepper Potts: Oooooh.

Tony Stark: My private elevator...

Pepper Potts: (correcting Tony) You mean our elevator?

Tony Stark: Was steaming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I?

Pepper Potts: it's not gonna be that subtle.

Tony Stark: I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.

Pepper Potts: (Laughs) On the lease

Tony Stark: Call your mom, can you bunk over?

JARVIS: Sir, the telephone. I'm afraid my protocols are being overwritten.

Phil Coulson: Stark, we need to talk.

[Tony picks up his phone and looks into it at Coulson and answers.]

Tony Stark: You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.

Phil Coulson: This is urgent.

Tony Stark: Then leave it urgently.

[The elevator door opens and Coulson appears.]

Tony Stark: Security breach.

Tony Stark: (Tony turns to Pepper) That's on you.

Phil Coulson: Mr. Stark

Pepper Potts: Phil! Come in.

Tony Stark: Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.

Phil Coulson: I can't stay

Pepper Potts: Come on in, we're celebrating.

Tony Stark: Which is why he can't stay.

Phil Coulson: We need you to look this over. [He holds out a file towards Tony] Soon as possible.

Tony Stark: I don't like being handed things.

Pepper Potts: That's alright, 'cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade.

[She passes her glass of champagne to Coulson, takes the file from him, then takes Tony's glass of champagne while passing the file over to Tony]

Pepper Potts: Thank you.

Tony Stark: Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.

Phil Coulson: This isn't a consultation.

Pepper Potts: Is this about The Avengers? (Phil looked at her) Which I...I know nothing about.

Tony Stark: The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.

Pepper Potts: I didn't know that either.

Tony Stark: Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self-obsessed, don't play well with others.

Pepper Potts: That I did know.

Phil Coulson: This isn't about personality profiles anymore.

Tony Stark: Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? [Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.]

Tony Stark: You know, I thought we were having a moment.

Pepper Potts: I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.

Tony Stark: How did you notice? Why is he Phil?

Pepper Potts: What is all of this?

Tony Stark: This is, uh... [Tony expands his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.] This.

[Screens appear of Captain America in action, the Hulk roaring as he attacks the army at Culver University, and Thor fighting the Destroyer in New Mexico. Another is of Loki and the Tesseract to which Tony and Pepper look at in awe]

Pepper Potts: I'm going to take the jet to DC tonight.

Tony Stark: Tomorrow.

Pepper Potts: You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.

Tony Stark: Well, what if I didn't?

Pepper Potts: If you didn't?

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Pepper Potts: You mean if you finished? [Tony nods his head] Well, um...then.

[She whispers something in his ear. Tony gasps. Coulson looks away obviously uncomfortable.]

Tony Stark: Square deal. It's the last date.

[Pepper kisses him and walks away.]

Pepper Potts: Work hard.

[Pepper turns to Coulson]

Pepper Potts: Any chance you're driving by La Guardia

Phil Coulson: Yeah I can drop you

Pepper Potts: Fantastic

[The two step into the elevator]

Pepper Potts: I want to hear all about that cellist, is that still a thing?

Phil Coulson: She moved back to Portland

Pepper Potts: What? aw boo

[Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, he looks unnerved]

[We are now inside the Quinjet, Steve is sitting down with a tablet, watching the footage of the Hulk's attack on the Army at Culver University]

Pilot: We're about forty minutes out from base, sir.

[Agent Coulson stands up from his seat and walks over to Steve.]

Steve Rogers: So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?

Phil Coulson: A lot of people were. You were the world's first superhero. Banner thought gamma radiation might hold the key to unlocking Erskine's original formula.

[The Hulk roars with fury as he slams a jeep apart.]

Steve Rogers: Didn't really go his way, did it?

Phil Coulson: Not so much. When he's not that thing though, guy's like a Stephen Hawking. [Steve looks confused.] He's like a smart person. I gotta say, it's an honor to meet you, officially. [Steve smiles at Coulson.] I sort of met you, I mean, I watched you while you were sleeping. [Steve looks down. He stands up, closes his laptop and walks to the side with Coulson following.] I mean, I was... I was present while you were unconscious from the ice. You know, it's really, it's just a... just a huge honor to have you on board.

Steve Rogers: Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.

Phil Coulson: Oh, you are. Absolutely. Uh... we've made some modifications to the uniform. I had a little design input.

Steve Rogers: The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?

Phil Coulson: With everything that's happening, the things that are about to come to light, people might just need a little old fashioned.

[Steve takes in Coulson's sentiment.]

[we are now in the underground lab, Several soldiers under Loki's mind control run around, preparing to infiltrate whatever Loki has planned. Loki sits down, watching Selvig work with a CMS device. Loki meditates, until...the scepter materializes him back into the throne room of the Other, fully armed in his horned helmet and armor. The other appears from the steps.]

The Other: The Chitauri grow restless

Loki: Let them go at themselves. I will lead them into glorious battle.

The Other: Battle? Against the meager might of Earth?

Loki: Glorious, not lengthy. If your force is as formidable as you claim.

The Other: You question us? You question him? He who put the scepter in your hand, who gave you ancient knowledge and new purpose when you were cast out, defeated?

Loki: I was a king! The rightful king of Asgard! Betrayed!

The Other: No doubt you'll be defeated on Earth,

Loki: They are a lost people, they mistake selfishness for spirit, when the sky falls it'll be every man for himself

The Other: How will you rule them then?

Loki: Unmercifully

The Other: Your ambition is little, born of childish need. We look beyond the Earth to greater worlds the Tesseract will unveil.

Loki: You don't have the Tesseract yet. [The Other runs over to attack him, but stops as Loki points his scepter.] I don't threaten, but until I open the doors, until your force is mine to command, you are but words.

The Other: You will have your war, Asgardian. If you fail, if the Tesseract is kept from us, there will be no realm, no barren moon, no crevice where he can't find you. You think you know pain? He will make you long for something as sweet as pain.

[The Other places his hand on Loki's head and transports him back to Earth. Loki looks around, cautiously almost afraid.]

[The Quinjet now lands down a massive battleship known as the Helicarrier. It has two runways. One with direct access to a hangar at the rear is aligned along the spine of the vessel. Agent Coulson and Steve walk down the ramp, meeting up with Natasha.]

Phil Coulson: Agent Romanoff, Captain Rogers.

Steve Rogers: Ma'am

Natasha Romanoff: Hi. [She looks at Coulson] They need you on the bridge. They're starting the face-trace.

Phil Coulson: See you there.

[Phil walks away, leaving Steve with Natasha, the pair walking towards the railing of the Helicarrier]

Natasha Romanoff: It was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?

Steve Rogers: Trading cards?

Natasha Romanoff: (Hiding the fact she is calling Steve vintage) They're vintage, he's very proud.

[Bruce Banner is seen walking around the ship, trying to stay out of the way while people walk in his way]

Steve Rogers: Dr. Banner.

[The two walk up to each other and shake hands]

Bruce Banner: Oh, yeah. Hi. They told me you'd be coming.

Steve Rogers: Word is you can find the cube.

Bruce Banner: Is that the only word on me?

Steve Rogers: (smiling slightly) Only word I care about.

Bruce Banner: [Takes in the sentiment] It must be strange for you, all of this.

Steve Rogers: Well, this is actually kind of familiar.

[Steve looks off to where a group of men in training are running, remembering his days in the army]

Natasha Romanoff: (interrupting) Gentlemen, you might want to step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath.

[The Helicarrier starts to shake as it prepares to take "sail". Agent aboard being to strap down planes and Quinjets in preparation and put on oxygen masks]

Steve Rogers: Is this a submarine?

Bruce Banner: (incredulous with a hint of sarcasm) Really? They wanted me in a submerged, pressurized metal container?

[The two both move closer to the edge of the Helicarrier. Four huge lift fans mounted on the sides starts to lift into the air as the ship takes flight. Steve watches in awe while Bruce just smiles.]

Bruce Banner: (shaking his head) Oh, no. This is much worse.

[The doors part and we enter the bridge of the ship. A flurry of activity, dozens of agents sit in front of their viewscreens. Agent Hill shouts instructions to leave. The camera turns to Nick Fury who is at the command chair.]

Maria Hill: We're at lock, sir.

Nick Fury: Good. Let's vanish.

[The Helicarrier rises high into the heavens. Suddenly the entire ship is covered in reflecting mirrors, which then camouflages in the sky. Steve and Banner walk through the glorious, gleaming bridge, Natasha looks back at them with a slight smile]

Nick Fury: Gentlemen.

[Steve gives Fury 10 bucks, referring to his earlier statement about never being surprised again, Steve begins to walk around marveling in what her was seeing as Hill watches him with slight suspicion. Fury walks over Banner and extends his hand. Banner, reluctantly shakes it.]

Nick Fury: Doctor, thank you for coming.

Bruce Banner: Thanks for asking nicely. So, uh... how long am I staying?

Nick Fury: Once we get our hands on the Tesseract, you're in the clear.

Bruce Banner: Oh yeah where are you with that?

[Nick Fury turns to Agent Coulson to explain, while Natasha crouches down to look at an image of Clint Barton on a computer screen, she swipes to the left and stats appear.]

Phil Coulson: We're sweeping every wirelessly accessible camera on the planet. Cellphones, laptops. If it's connected to a satellite, it's eyes and ears for us.

[Natasha turns her head to the group still crouching]

Natasha Romanoff: (worry) That's still not gonna find them in time.

Bruce Banner: You have to narrow the field. How many spectrometers do you have access to?

Nick Fury: How many do you need?

Bruce Banner: Call every lab you know, tell them to put the spectrometers on the roof and calibrate them for gamma rays. I'll rough out a tracking algorithm based on cluster recognition. At least we could rule out a few places. Do you have somewhere for me to work?

Nick Fury: Agent Romanoff, would you show Dr. Banner to his laboratory, please.

[Natasha stands and nods and walks off, leading Banner down the hall.]

Natasha Romanoff: You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.

Bruce Banner: Really do you have a commodore 64?

Natasha Romanoff: I'm not sure

[Banner cuts her off]

Bruce Banner: Oh you're very young aren't you?

[Fury walks over to where Hill is working]

Nick Fury: agent Hill

[Maria turns]

Nick Fury: Did you tell the council Barton's been compromised?

Maria Hill: Was that not procedure?

[Fury looks at her and walks to the window

Maria went back to work but kept talking]

Maria Hill: Did you tell them who exactly is on you're response team?

[Fury looked back and then kept walking to the window]

Nick Fury: Doesn't appear that I have to

[Maria looks up frowning as Fury stops at the window]

[we are back in the underground lab, Selvig and several scientists work around the CMS device. Clint walks in, holding an iPad, someone shows something to Selvig..]

Erik Selvig: (to person) Put it over there! [To Clint] Where did you find all these people?

Clint Barton: SHIELD has no shortage of enemies doctor (He holds up a screen showing information on Iridium). Is this the stuff you need?

Erik Selvig: Yeah, iridium. It's found in meteorites, it forms anti-protons. It's very hard to get hold of.

Clint Barton: Especially if SHIELD knows you need it.

Erik Selvig: Well, I didn't know! [Sees Loki coming] this is wonderful the the tesseract has shown me so much it's more than knowledge it's truth.

Loki: I know it uh touches everyone differently

[Clint was in the background talking to a Loki agent]

Loki: What did it show you agent Barton

Clint Barton: My next target

Erik Selvig: (laughs) Stick in the mud he's got no soul, (Clint turns to the doctor) no wonder you chose this tomb to work in

Clint Barton: Well the Radisson doesn't have three levels of lead line flooring between SHIELD and that cube

[Selvig nods absentmindedly and walks away]

Loki: I see why Fury chose you guard it

[Barton and Loki walk through the underground lab]

Clint Barton: You're gonna have to contend with him as long as he's in the air I can't pin him down, he'll be putting together a team

Loki: Will they be a threat?

Clint Barton: To each other more than likely but if Fury can get them on track and he might they could throw some noise our way

[Loki looks at Clint]

Loki: You admire Fury

[Clint and Loki keep walking]

Clint Barton: He's got a clear line of sight

Loki: Is that why you failed to kill him?

[Clint stops walking as Loki walked into the tunnel]

Clint Barton: It might be I was disoriented and I'm not at my best with a gun

[Loki turns with an idea]

Loki: I want to know everything you can tell me about this team of his I would test their mettle I weary of scuttling in shadows I mean to rule this world not burrow in it

Clint Barton: It's a risk

[Loki smiles devilishly]

Loki: Oh yes

Clint Barton: If you're set on making yourself known I could be useful

[Loki walks to Clint]

Loki: Tell me what you need

[Clint opens the case his bow is in and extends the bow]

Clint Barton: I'll need a distraction and an eyeball

[It is now night and we are back on the Helicarrier bridge. As they are waiting to locate Loki using satellite facial recognition, Coulson is standing with Steve.]

Phil Coulson: I mean, if it's not too much trouble.

Steve Rogers: No, no. It's fine.

Phil Coulson: It's a vintage set. It took me a couple of years to collect them all. Near mint, slight foxing around the edges, but...

Jasper Sitwell: We got a hit. Sixty-seven percent match. wait, cross match, seventy-nine percent.

Phil Coulson: Location?

Jasper Sitwell: Stuttgart, Germany. 28, Konigstrasse. He's not exactly hiding.

Nick Fury: Captain, you're up.

[Steve looks up and nods. Leaves.

We are outside the Stuttgart Museum, night. Loki is standing in front of the museum, dressed in 21st Century attire with his scepter disguised as a cane. He walks up to the entrance of the gala. Inside the Stuttgart Museum. A lavished gala with an orchestra playing is interrupted as the head doctor walks up to the mic.

we are back Inside Helicarrier where Steve's locker is. Steve walks into the locker room. As he approaches to the steel cabinet, the doors already reveal the updated Captain America uniform, along with the famous shield. He stands in silence.

We are back outside the museum. German guards stand in their positions. One of them is standing on tip of the roof, scoping. He then hears a sound. He looks down. One of his guards is shot with an arrow. He raises his gun. He is shot dead by an arrow. Falls down. Barton and his crew arrive at the doors of the locked science building. Barton looks at the retinal scanner. He pulls out a SHIELD eye scanner instrument. Meanwhile Inside the gala, Loki looks from above the museum and descends down to where the head doctor is. As he makes it down and near the stage, he flips his cane the other end. The guard there notices him, pulls out his gun, but Loki clubs his head in. Chaos erupts. Guests begin to leave the museum. Loki grabs the doctor and flips him over onto a marble table of the mythological creatures an unnamable creature. Loki pulls out an optical torture device. He plunges down the doctor's eye. The doctor twists in pain everyone screams and runs as Loki smiles. Outside the museum. Suddenly from Barton's instrument, a holographic eye of the head doctor appears and the image of the doctor appears on screen. The doors to the facility open. Barton walks in and finds in a cabinet, a glass thermos with a cylinder of iridium. Loki slowly walks out and materializes in his gold armor and helmet. The police arrive and with no hesitation, he blasts the cars, flipping them over.]

Loki: Kneel before me.

[The crowd ignores him. And they try to run so three more Loki's appear, surrounding and blocking the crowd from escaping.]

Loki: I said KNEEL!

[While the crowd quietly kneels, Loki embraces out his arms with a wide smile]

Loki: Is not this simpler? Is this not your natural state? It's the unspoken truth of humanity, that you crave subjugation. The bright lure of freedom diminishes your life's joy in a mad scramble for power, for identity. You were made to be ruled. In the end, you will always kneel.

[As the words resonate to the kneeling crowd, an elder German man refuses to kneel and stands, heroic.]

Elder German Man: Not to men like you.

Loki: There are no men like me.

Elder German Man: There are always men like you.

Loki: Look to your elder, people. Let him be an example. [As Loki is about to execute the man with his scepter as the light glows blue. Right as the energy beam shoots out, Captain America arrives, diving in just in time to block the blast with his shield, and knocking down Loki]

Steve Rogers: You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.

Loki: [Standing up] The soldier. A man out of time.

Steve Rogers: I'm not the one who's out of time.

[From above Steve Rogers, the Quinjet arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki, while Natasha speaks from inside the aircraft]

Natasha Romanoff: (over PA) Loki, drop the weapon and stand down.

[Loki sends a blast of blue at the Quinjet. Natasha maneuvers it just in time, giving Steve the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both began to dule it out. Loki flings Steve to the ground, and then Steve throws his shield, but Loki swats it away. As Steve is knocked down by Loki, the scepter is pointed to Steve's helmet]

Loki: Kneel.

Steve Rogers: Not today!

[Steve flips and knocks him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and flips him over]

Natasha Romanoff: This guy's all over the place.

[Suddenly AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives to the Quinjets speakers]

Tony Stark: Agent Romanoff, did you miss me?

[Natasha smirks a little bit. Steve and Loki look up at the sky confused. Tony flies over in his Iron Man suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. Iron Man touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.]

Tony Stark: Make your move, Reindeer Games.

[Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armor disappears]

Tony Stark: Good move.

Steve Rogers: Mr. Stark.

Tony Stark: Captain.

INT. QUINJET - NIGHT

[Natasha watches the skies. THUNDER. Coming out of nowhere. Fury speaks over her headset.]

Nick Fury (V.O.): Said anything?

Natasha Romanoff: Not a word.

Nick Fury (V.O.): Just get him here. We're low on time.

[With Loki tied up and cuffed to his seat, Tony and Steve watch from a distance, whispering.]

Steve Rogers: I don't like it.

Tony Stark: What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?

Steve Rogers: I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.

Tony Stark: Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?

Steve Rogers: What?

Tony Stark: It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, during your time as a Capsicle.

[Steve looks at Tony, obviously meeting his ego match.]

Steve Rogers: Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.

Tony Stark: Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you.

[THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently. Natasha's head snapped towards where she heard it almost afraid]

Natasha Romanoff: Where's this coming from?

[Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.]

Steve Rogers: What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?

Loki: I'm not overly fond of what follows.

[OUTSIDE THE JET A BLINDING LIGHT hits the jet. Not a light. A King. THE MIGHTY THOR. Thor OPENS the ramp and grabs Loki by the throat and flies out. Steve and Tony are left dumbstruck. Tony puts the IRON MAN helmet on.]

Tony Stark: (pointing out the obvious and annoyed) Now there's that guy.

Natasha Romanoff: Another Asgardian?

Steve Rogers: Think the guy's a friendly?

Tony Stark: Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.

Steve Rogers: Stark, we need a plan of attack!

Tony Stark: I have a plan. Attack.

[Tony Stark jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Steve grabs a parachute to follow.]

Natasha Romanoff: I'd sit this one out, Cap.

Steve Rogers: I don't see how I can.

Natasha Romanoff: (serious at this point) These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.

Steve Rogers: There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that.

[Steve jumps out of the jet.

In the mountains, Thor throws Loki into the side of the mountain. He raises the mighty hammer, MJÖLNIR. He looks down at his brother, who he thought to be dead and is angry to see him alive in this fashion.]

Thor: Where is the Tesseract?

Loki: (LAUGHS) I missed you too.

Thor: Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!

Loki: Oh, you should thank me. With the Bifrost gone how much dark energy did the Allfather have to muster to conjure you here? Your precious Earth.

[Thor drops MJÖLNIR, causing the mountain to quake. He picks up Loki. His brother. Although Thor is pissed for what he has done, a family is everything to a man or god.]

Thor: I thought you died.

Loki: Did you mourn?

Thor: We all did. Our father...

Loki: Your father. He did tell you my true parentage, did he not? Thor lets go Loki, who walks away from Thor, causing an even bigger wedge between them.

Thor: We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?

Loki: (TURNS AROUND) I remember a shadow. Living in the shade of your greatness. I remember you tossing me into an abyss. I was and should be king!

Thor: So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.

Loki: (LAUGHS) And you're doing a marvelous job with that. The humans slaughter each other in droves, while you idly threat. I mean to rule them. And why should I not?

Thor: You think yourself above them.

Loki: Well, yes.

Thor: Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill.

[Angry, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.]

Loki: I've seen worlds you've never known about! I have grown, Odinson, in my exile! I have seen the true power of the Tesseract, and when I wield it...

Thor: Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?

Loki: I am a king!

Thor: Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.

Loki: I don't have it. You need the cube to bring me home, but I've sent it off. I know not where.

[Mjölnir flies back to his grasp.]

Thor: You listen well, brother.

[Thor is knocked off the mountain by Iron Man who tackles him in mid-flight.]

Loki: (mildly amused) I'm listening.

EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS

[Thor and Iron Man CRASH into the forest. Thor rolls himself up. IRON MAN is still standing, but keeps his distance. The helmet opens up.]

Thor: Do not touch me again!

Tony Stark: Then don't take my stuff.

Thor: You have no idea what you're dealing with.

Tony Stark: Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?

Thor: This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!

Tony Stark: He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist.

[The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjölnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.]

[INSIDE THE SUIT]

Tony Stark: Okay.

[From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjölnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy. IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree.] Right back at you, bitch! [Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjölnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.]

[INSIDE THE SUIT]

JARVIS: Power at 400% capacity.

Tony Stark: How about that?

[Tony fires from his hand repulsor, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and Tony in the Iron Man suit fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.]

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

[The two battle. Tony grasps Thor, elbowing him and SMASHING him into the side of a mountain. Thor jumps off the mountain and takes Tony with him.]

EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS

[Thor and Iron Man crash right back down, smashing down every tree possible. Iron Man YANKS Thor right up. Thor grabs both HANDS BOOSTERS and begins to CRUSH them. Tony quickly CHARGES as much energy as he can and SHOOTS ENERGY in Thor's face. Thor FALLS back, losing his stance. Iron Man HEADBUTTS Thor, with his gold-titanium alloy helmet. Thor headbutts Iron Man and sends him across the forest. Iron Man boosters up and flies back at Thor, grabbing him by the arm and cape and SWINGS him into another tree. Thor looks up, ready. Thor runs with all his patience out the window. Iron Man SWINGS and MISSES, giving Thor the momentum to grab him, lift him and SMASH him down hard. Thor summons back Mjölnir to his hand. Just as he's about to put the hammer down, Iron Man uses his HAND BOOSTERS to SKID across the ground and trip Thor over. Standing up, Thor looks for him, but from behind him, Iron Man CRASHES into his back. Thor stands facing Iron Man. Ready to pounce... Captain America's shield RICOCHETS off a tree between Thor and Iron Man, stopping them. They look up and see Captain America standing on top of a fallen tree with the shield back in hand.]

Steve Rogers: Hey! That's enough! (comes down; looks at Thor) Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.

Thor: I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!

Steve Rogers: Then prove it! Put the hammer down.

Iron Man: Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!

[Thor backhands Tony into a tree, losing all patience raises the hammer.]

Thor: [to Cap] You want me to put the hammer down?

[Thor leaps up raising the hammer, Steve raises it above his head, Mjolnir comes crashing into the Vibranium shield causing a shockwave]

Steve Rogers: Are we done here?

[Thor, Steve and Tony stand there in silence, Thor looks around.]

INT. HELICARRIER HALLWAY - NIGHT

[DOZENS of SHIELD POLICE escort Loki, who is in handcuffs, smiling. As they pass the HELICARRIER LAB, Banner stops working on the CHITAURI SCEPTER and looks up. Loki eyes him as he walks, nodding and smiling. BANNER rubs his head.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT

[Loki is now free from his cuffs and is contained in a LARGE GLASS CELL held by HYDRAULIC RIGS. Fury walks up the control panel of the cell.]

Nick Fury: In case it's unclear. You try to escape. You so much as scratch that glass.

[Fury presses a button which OPENS UP a HATCH underneath Loki's cell. Loki peers as much as he can from the glass. Without seeing, the sounds of GUSTING WIND would make man shit his pants. Not a god, though.]

Nick Fury: Thirty thousand feet, straight down in a steel trap. You get how that works?!

[Fury closes the hatch. Points at Loki.]

Nick Fury: Ant.

[Then points at the button which would drop Loki into the steel trap.]

Nick Fury: Boot.

Loki: (SMIRKING) It's an impressive cage. Not built, I think, for me.

Nick Fury: Built for something a lot stronger than you.

Loki: Oh, I've heard.

[Loki looks into the camera.]

INT. BRIEFING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

[The others watch on the monitor Loki getting interrogated. Banner looks at the monitor, intently.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - CONTINUOUS

Loki: The mindless beast, makes play he's still a man. How desperate are you, that you call upon such lost creatures to defend you?

Nick Fury: How desperate am I? You threaten my world with war. You steal a force you can't hope to control. You talk about peace and you kill `cause it's fun. You have made me very desperate. You might not be glad that you did.

Loki: Ooh. It burns you to come so close. To have the Tesseract, to have power, unlimited power. And for what? A warm light for all mankind to share, and then to be reminded what real power is.

Nick Fury: (SMILING) Well, you let me know if Real Power wants a magazine or something.

[Fury walks off leaving Loki in his glass cell. Loki looks back at the camera, smirking.]

INT. BRIEFING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

[Steve watches until the monitor goes black. Thor, who didn't even look, just listened, stands there, torn apart. They all just stand there in stunned. Finally...]

Bruce Banner: He really grows on you, doesn't he?

Steve Rogers: Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?

Thor: (COMING TOO) He has an army called the Chitauri. They're not of Asgard or any world known. He means to lead them against your people. They will win him the earth. In return, I suspect, for the Tesseract.

Steve Rogers: (SERIOUSLY) An army? From outer space?

Bruce Banner: So he's building another portal. That's what he needs Erik Selvig for.

Thor: Selvig?

Bruce Banner: He's an astrophysicist.

Thor: He's a friend.

Natasha Romanoff: Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.

Steve Rogers: I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.

Bruce Banner: I don't think we should be focusing on Loki. That guy's brain is a bag full of cats, you could smell crazy on him.

Thor: Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.

Natasha Romanoff: He killed eighty people in two days.

Thor: He's adopted.

Bruce Banner: I think it's about the mechanics. Iridium, what did they need the Iridium for?

Tony Stark: It's a stabilizing agent. (walks in with Coulson; to COULSON) I'll fly you there. Keep the love alive. Means the portal won't collapse on itself, like it did at SHIELD.

Tony Stark (CONT'D) (TO THOR): No hard feelings, Point Break. You've got a mean swing. (referring to the Iridium) Also, it means the portal can open as wide, and stay open as long, as Loki wants. (TO CREW) Uh, raise the mid-mast, ship the top sails. That man is playing GALAGA! Thought we wouldn't notice. But we did. (covering his eye, looks AROUND) How does Fury do this?

Maria Hill: (sassily) He turns.

[Tony looks around the monitors and places a BUTTON SIZE HACKING IMPLANT under Fury's desk, without anyone noticing.]

Tony Stark: Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.

Maria Hill: When did you become an expert in thermonuclear astrophysics?

Tony Stark: Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?

Steve Rogers: Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?

Bruce Banner: He's got to heat the cube to a hundred and twenty million Kelvin just to break through the Coulomb barrier.

Tony Stark: Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.

Bruce Banner: Well, if he could do that he could achieve Heavy Ion Fusion at any reactor on the planet.

Tony Stark: Finally, someone who speaks English.

Steve Rogers: Is that what just happened?

[Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.]

Tony Stark: It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. Your work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.

Bruce Banner: (LOOKS DOWN) Thanks.

Nick Fury: (WALKING IN) Dr. Banner is only here to track the cube. I was hoping you might join him.

Steve Rogers: I'd start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.

Nick Fury: I don't know about that, but it is powered by the cube. And I'd like to know how Loki used it to turn two of the sharpest men I know into his personal flying monkeys.

Thor: Monkeys? I do not understand.

Steve Rogers: I do! I understood that reference.

[Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.]

Tony Stark: Shall we play, doctor?

Bruce Banner: Let's play some.

[As Banner and Tony walk out, the GALAGA PLAYER turns ever so discreetly, watches as everyone else disperses and goes back to playing.]

INT. BANNER'S LAB - NIGHT (LATER)

[Banner continuously scans with a gamma ray detection scanner on the scepter for radiation. Tony looks at his monitors, shifting and solving as many algorithms and equations.]

Bruce Banner: The gamma readings are definitely consistent with Selvig's reports on the Tesseract. But it's gonna take weeks to process.

Tony Stark: If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.

Bruce Banner: All I packed was a toothbrush.

Tony Stark: (SMILES) You know, you should come by STARK TOWER sometime. Top ten floors, all R&D. You'd love it, it's candy land.

Bruce Banner: Thanks, but the last time I was in New York I kind of broke...Harlem.

Tony Stark: Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises.

[Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.]

Bruce Banner: OW!

[Tony looks at Banner closely.]

Steve Rogers: Hey!

Tony Stark: Nothing?

Steve Rogers: Are you nuts?

Tony Stark: (to Steve) Jury's out (to Banner) You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?

Steve Rogers: Is everything a joke to you?

Tony Stark: Funny things are.

Steve Rogers: Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, Doctor.

Bruce Banner: No, it's alright. I wouldn't have come aboard if I couldn't handle pointy things.

Tony Stark: You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.

Steve Rogers: And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.

Tony Stark: You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.

Steve Rogers: You think Fury's hiding something?

Tony Stark: He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets. (points to Banner) It's bugging him too, isn't it?

Bruce Banner: (bobbling the words) Uh...I just wanna finish my work here and...

Steve Rogers: Doctor?

[A beat.]

Bruce Banner: 'A warm light for all mankind, Loki's jab at Fury about the cube.

Steve Rogers: I heard it.

Bruce Banner: (pointing at Tony) Well, I think that was meant for you. Even if Barton didn't tell Loki about the tower it was still all over the news.

Steve Rogers: Stark Tower? That big ugly (Tony gives him a look) ...building in New York?

Bruce Banner: It's powered by Stark Reactors, self-sustaining energy source. That building will run itself for what, a year?

Tony Stark: That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.

Bruce Banner: (referring to Tony) So, why didn't SHIELD bring him in on the Tesseract project? I mean, what are they doing in the energy business in the first place?

Tony Stark: I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.

Steve Rogers: (taken aback by that) I'm sorry, did you say...?

Tony Stark: Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide. (holds out a bag of blueberries) Blueberry?

Steve Rogers: Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?

Tony Stark: An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.

Steve Rogers: I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.

Tony Stark: Following is not really my style.

Steve Rogers: (SMILING) And you're all about style, aren't you?

Tony Stark: (a nerve hit) Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?

Bruce Banner: Steve, tell me none of this smells a little funky to you?

[Steve takes in the possibility, but as an obedient soldier, shakes it off.]

Steve Rogers: Just find the cube.

[Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.]

BACK IN THE LAB

Tony Stark: That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.

Bruce Banner: The guy's not wrong about Loki. He does have the jump on us.

Tony Stark: What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit. It's gonna blow up in his face, and I'm gonna be there when it does.

Bruce Banner: And I'll read all about it.

Tony Stark: Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.

Bruce Banner: Ah, see. I don't get a suit of armor. I'm exposed, like a nerve. It's a nightmare.

Tony Stark: You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart. (points at the MINI-ARC REACTOR in his chest) This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.

Bruce Banner: But you can control it.

Tony Stark: Because I learned how.

Bruce Banner: It's different.

[Banner tries to read the computer screen, but Tony slides the data aside with his finger so the two can see face-to-face.]

Tony Stark: Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.

Bruce Banner: So you're saying that the Hulk... the other guy... saved my life? That's nice. It's a nice sentiment. Saved it for what?

Tony Stark: (A BEAT) I guess we'll find out.

[Banner and Stark get back to work at their respective computers.]

Bruce Banner: You might not like that.

Tony Stark: You just might.

INT. HULL HANGAR, SECURE STORAGE 10-C - NIGHT

[Steve, with all his strength, slides the heavy door and quietly walks in. SECURE STORAGE 10-C is a large warehouse, filled with crates stacked. Steve looks up, seeing another level. Checking no-one is around He leaps up high and holds onto the catwalk railing. Steve continues to move forward.]

INT. VAN - NIGHT

[Inside this van, Selvig and a few other SOLDIERS are driving inside a long tunnel. With the CMS device inside, Selvig carefully picks up the small cylinder shape IRIDIUM with metal prongs and lightly places it in a SLOT within the CMS. THE CMS ACCEPTS IT. Selvig looks at it, smiling, a devilish smile.]

INT. BRIEFING ROOM - NIGHT

[On a SHIELD monitor is a photo and record of Jane Foster. Thor looks at her, remembering. With him is Agent Coulson.]

Phil Coulson: As soon as Loki took the doctor we moved Jane Foster. We've got an excellent observatory in Tromso. She was asked to consult there very suddenly yesterday. Handsome fee, private plane, very remote. She'll be safe.

Thor: Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig; I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.

Phil Coulson: He talks about you a lot. You changed his life. You changed everything around here.

Thor: They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we... we come here battling like BILGESNIPE.

Phil Coulson: Like what?

Thor: BILGESNIPE? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?

Phil Coulson: Don't think so.

Thor: They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path.

[Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window.]

Thor: When I first came to Earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.

Nick Fury (O.S.): War hasn't started yet. (WALKING IN) You think you can make Loki tell us what the Tesseract is?

Thor: I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.

Nick Fury: A lot of guys think that, until the pain stops.

Thor: What are you asking me to do?

Nick Fury: I'm asking, what are you prepared to do?

Thor: Loki is a prisoner.

Nick Fury: Then why do I feel like he's the only person on this boat that wants to be here?

[Thor doesn't answer.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT

[Loki paces in the glass case when he stops sensing someone behind him]

Loki: Hmm. There's not many people that can sneak up on me.

[Loki turns and see Natasha Romanoff standing there with her arms by her side.]

Natasha Romanoff: But you figured I'd come.

Loki: After. After whatever tortures Fury can concoct, you would appear as a friend, as a balm. And I would cooperate.

Natasha Romanoff: I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.

[Natasha step closer to the cage folding her arms]

Loki: I'd say I've expanded his mind.

Natasha Romanoff: And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?

Loki: Is this love, Agent Romanoff?

Natasha Romanoff: Love is for children. I owe him a debt.

Loki: (SITTING DOWN) Tell me.

Natasha Romanoff: (she pulls up a chair as WELL) Before I worked for SHIELD, I uh...well, I made a name for myself. I have a very specific skillset. I didn't care who I used it for, or on. I got on SHIELD's radar in a bad way. Agent Barton was sent to kill me, he made a different call.

Loki: And what will you do if I vow to spare him?

Natasha Romanoff: Not let you out.

Loki: (LAUGHS) Ah, no. But I like this. Your world in the balance, and you bargain for one man?

Natasha Romanoff: Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.

Loki: What is it you want?

Natasha Romanoff: It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.

Loki: Can you? Can you wipe out that much red? Dreykov's daughter?

[Natasha's face changes it is slight, her eye glaze over and she swallows thickly as her mouth opens slightly]

Loki: Sao Paulo? The Hospital fire? Barton told me everything. Your ledger is dripping, it's gushing red, and you think saving a man no more virtuous than yourself will change anything? (Loki stands) This is the basest sentimentality. This is a child at prayer... PATHETIC!

[INTERCUTS - Tony and Banner continuously work at their monitors.]

Loki (V.O.): You lie and kill in the service of liars and killers.

[The screen comes up with Virus detected from Stark's hacking Fury oversees as Hill goes to see what is happening on one Agent's viewscreen]

Loki (V.O.): You pretend to be separate, to have your own code, something that makes up for the horrors. But they are a part of you, and they will never go away!

[Steve opens a crate. Angry, he looks behind him and looks back into the crate. The crate is filled with HYDRA weapons]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - NIGHT

[Loki slams on his cell causing Natasha to flinch slightly]

Loki: I won't touch Barton. Not until I make him kill you! Slowly. Intimately. In every way he knows you fear! And when he'll wake just long enough to see his good work, and when he screams, I'll split his skull! This is my bargain, you mewling quim!

[Natasha turns away from Loki afraid]

Natasha Romanoff: (Distraught) You're a monster.

Loki: (Laughs) No, you brought the monster.

Natasha Romanoff: (turns back around; tears not there) So, Banner... that's your play.

Loki: (Shocked) What?

Natasha Romanoff: (into earpiece to Fury) Loki means to unleash the Hulk. Keep Banner in the lab, I'm on my way. Send Thor as well. (Natasha turns back to Loki and taunts him) Thank you for your cooperation.

[Natasha quickly walks out, leaving Loki frozen.]

INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING

[Fury walks in the lab, shocked to see Banner and Stark not working]

Nick Fury: (ANGRY) What are you doing, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.

Nick Fury: You're supposed to be locating the Tesseract.

Bruce Banner: We are. The model's locked and we're sweeping for the signature now. When we get a hit, we'll have the location within half a mile.

Tony Stark: And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss. (suddenly his monitor show a collection of SECRET FILES) What is PHASE 2?

[Steve walks in slamming a HYDRA weapon on the table causing Fury, Banner and Stark to turn around, Steve is pissed off.]

Steve Rogers: PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons. (TO TONY) Sorry, the computer was moving a little slow.

Nick Fury: (trying to explain) Rogers, we gathered everything related to the Tesseract. This does not mean that we're...

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, Nick.

[Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of Phase 2]

Tony Stark: What were you lying?

Steve Rogers: I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit.

[At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, angry]

Bruce Banner: Did you know about this?

Natasha Romanoff: You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?

Bruce Banner: I was in Calcutta, I was pretty well removed.

Natasha Romanoff: Loki's manipulating you.

Bruce Banner: And you've been doing what exactly?

Natasha Romanoff: You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.

Bruce Banner: Yes, and I'm not leaving because suddenly you get a little twitchy. I'd like to know why SHIELD is using the Tesseract to build weapons of mass destruction.

Nick Fury: Because of him. (pointing at Thor)

Thor: (STUNNED) Me?

Nick Fury: Last year, Earth had a visitor from another planet who had a grudge match that leveled a small town. We learned that not only are we not alone, but we are hopelessly, hilariously, outgunned.

Thor: My people want nothing but peace with your planet.

Nick Fury: But you're not the only people out there, are you? And, you're not the only threat. The world's filling up with people who can't be matched, they can't be controlled.

Steve Rogers: Like you controlled the cube?

Thor: Your work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.

Steve Rogers: A higher form?

Nick Fury: You forced our hand. We had to come up with something.

Tony Stark: Nuclear deterrent. Cause that always calms everything right down.

Nick Fury: Remind me again how you made your fortune, Stark?

Steve Rogers: I'm sure if he still made weapons, Stark would be neck deep...

Tony Stark: Wait! Wait! Hold on! How is this now about me?

Steve Rogers: I'm sorry, isn't everything?

Thor: I thought humans were more evolved than this.

[Fury turned to Thor as Natasha jumped in]

Nick Fury: Excuse me, did WE come to YOUR planet and blow stuff up?

Thor: Did you always give your champions such mistrust?

Natasha Romanoff: Are you all really that naïve? S.H.I.E.L.D monitors potential threats.

Bruce Banner: Captain America is on the threat watch?

Natasha Romanoff: We all are

Tony Stark: (to Steve) You're on that list? Are you above or below angry bees?

Steve Rogers: I swear to God, Stark, one more wisecrack...

Tony Stark: Verbal threatening! I feel threatened!

[As they argue, they don't realize the blue gem in Loki's scepter is glowing brightly.]

INT. AIRCRAFT CARRIER - DAY

[Outside the HELICARRIER, a lone carrier slowly hovers over the ship.]

SHIELD base voice: 661 Bravo, please relay your pass code. What is your hull, over?

Pilot: Arms to ammunition, over.

[Inside, Clint and his crew suit up and arm themselves. Clint pulls out his hi-tech bow and arrows.]

INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING

[Back in the lab, the egos of these people keep rubbing off each other and at any moment, the shit will hit the fan.]

Thor: You speak of control, yet you court chaos.

Bruce Banner: It's his M.O., isn't it? I mean, what are we? A team? No, no, no, we're a chemical mixture that makes chaos. We're...we're a time bomb.

Nick Fury: (OFFENDED) YOU need to step away.

Tony Stark: Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam? (puts hand on Steve's shoulder)

Steve Rogers: (swats Tony's hand away from his shoulder) You know damn well why, back off!

Tony Stark: (comes face-to-face with Cap) Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.

Steve Rogers: Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?

Tony Stark: Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.

[Natasha tilts her head in a way that says 'he's not wrong']

Steve Rogers: I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage. The only thing you really fight for is yourself. You're not the guy to make the sacrifice play, to lay down on a wire and let the other guy crawl over you.

Tony Stark: I think I would just cut the wire.

Steve Rogers: (SMILING) Always a way out... You know, you may not be a threat, but you better stop pretending to be a hero.

Tony Stark: (that did it) A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!

OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER

[The ramp of the carrier opens. The carrier maneuvers next to one of the large turbine engines. Barton stands at the base, holding out his bow. He pulls out a GRENADE TIPPED ARROW. He points right at the engine. Then...Barton moves his AIM and points the arrow about a hundred feet from the engine. He releases. The arrow flies out, but then SHARPLY heads for the engine. The arrow is punctured onto the engine. It has a visible timer which is COUNTING DOWN.]

INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING

[Back in the lab, Steve puffs up his chest at Tony, who just stands there, unmoving.]

Steve Rogers: Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds.

[Thor laughs at them.]

Thor: You people are so petty... and tiny.

[Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.]

Bruce Banner: Yeah, this is a team…

Nick Fury: Agent Romanoff, would you escort Dr. Banner back to his…

Bruce Banner: Where? You rented my room.

Nick Fury: The cell was just in case…

Bruce Banner: In case you needed to kill me, but you can't! I know! I tried! (A BEAT) I got low. I didn't see an end, so I put a bullet in my mouth and the other guy spit it out! So I moved on. I focused on helping other people. I was good, until you dragged me back into this freak show and put everyone here at risk!

[Banner slowly gets upset as he looks at Romanoff, who gets unnerved.]

Bruce Banner: You wanna know my secret, Agent Romanoff? You wanna know how I stay calm?

[Black Widow and Fury place their hands on their guns upon natural instinct]

Steve Rogers: Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.

[Banner looks down in shock to see he is holding the scepter]

Tony Stark: Got it.

[Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.]

Bruce Banner: Sorry, kids. You don't get to see my little party trick after all.

Thor: Located the Tesseract?

Tony Stark: I can get there faster.

Steve Rogers: Look, all of us…

Thor: The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it.

[Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.]

Steve Rogers: You're not going alone!

Tony Stark: You gonna stop me?

Steve Rogers: Put on the suit, let's find out.

Tony Stark: I'm not afraid to hit an old man.

Steve Rogers: Put on the suit.

[At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract and looks to the group.]

Bruce Banner: Oh, my God!

OUTSIDE THE HELICARRIER:

[Clint pulls the trigger on his bow causing the arrow to explode]

INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING

[Everyone is thrown in every direction. Steve, Fury, Thor and Tony are thrown across while Natasha and Banner are down in the lower equipment room. Steve looks up at Tony.]

Steve Rogers: Put on the suit!

Tony Stark: Yep!

[Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts talks into his earpiece.]

Nick Fury: Hill?!

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY

[Panic erupts everyone is running everywhere. Emergency alarms set off, fire extinguishers activate near surrounding fires and every agent is in a spinning scramble for their positions and armaments. Agent Hill keeps the bridge as calm as possible.]

Maria Hill: Turn up that engine! Number 3 engine is: down! Can we get a run in? (runs over to an agent, the Galaga player) Talk to me.

Agent 1: (points to monitor) Turbine's loose. Mostly intact, but it's impossible to get out there and make repairs while we're in the air.

Maria Hill: We lose one more engine, we won't be. (into earpiece to Fury) Somebody's got to get inside and patch that engine.

INT. BANNER'S LAB - MORNING

Nick Fury: Stark! You copy that?!

Tony Stark (V.O.): I'm on it!

Nick Fury: Coulson! Initiate official lock down in the detention section then get to the armory! Move out!

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY

[Agent Coulson runs out of the bridge.]

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - MORNING

[Natasha looks over to Banner, who is breathing heavy, having landed hard. He is gripping the grated floor to maintain control, but his eyes are green, his face intense.]

Nick Fury: (into earpiece) Romanoff?

Natasha Romanoff: (into earpiece) I'm okay!

[Natasha looked towards Bruce]

Natasha Romanoff: (quietly, to herself) We're okay, right?

EXT. HELICARRIER DECK - DAY

[Barton leads his men into the air ducts of the ship. They rappel down into a corridor.]

Clint Barton: Get that engine down! Detention! Get him through the dark! Come with me.

[Two of his men follow him. They head towards the bridge.]

EXT. ND HALLWAY, CARRIER - MORNING

[Tony and Cap run through a dim, debris filled hall.]

Tony Stark: Find engine three. I'll meet you there.

[Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.]

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER

[FOCUS ON BANNER'S FACE in the dim light as he struggles to suppress the rage, but his face is growing, changing slowly. Natasha is pulling herself painfully free, talking to Banner.]

Natasha Romanoff: Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me.

[Two approaching SHIELD agents arrive to check on her.]

SHIELD agent 1: Are you ok?

[She waves them away. They see Bruce transforming and run out.]

Natasha Romanoff: We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never…

Bruce Banner: Your life?

[His voice has the change in it a growling threat. Another explosion rocks the carrier and he turns to look at her, transforming just as the lights go out.]

Natasha Romanoff: (begging him to stay calm) Bruce.

[Banner suddenly starts transforming into the Hulk and gives Natasha one last look. Natasha tries to free herself of the pipe that is on her ankle. She stops. The Hulk , sensing her, turns his head and puts on a face of a disturbing monster. Natasha manages to get her foot from under the pipe and runs up the stairs with the Hulk chasing after her. Natasha maneuvers like she was trained to in the Red Room. She ducks under a turbine, starts to crawl within the maze of pipes. The Hulk pulls them out from above the catwalk. Natasha falls through under the catwalks and quickly and stealthily escapes. The Hulk lets out a roar of anger but it isn't human.]

INT. HELICARRIER DETENTION SECTION - DAY

[Loki looks up, smiling knowing Bruce has transformed his plan is working.]

INT. HELICARRIER BRIDGE - DAY

[Fury RUNS in and sees the chaos has increased even more than before. The helmsmen are in complete disarray.]

Nick Fury: Bring the carrier inwards and head south. Take us to the water.

Helmsman: the navigation is system is still recalibrating after the engine failure.

Nick Fury: (angry) Is the sun coming up?!

Helmsman: (Confused) Yes, sir.

Nick Fury: (Snapping) Then put it on the left! Get us over water! One more turbine goes down and we drop.

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY

[Steve, pushing with all his strength the door to portside, sees SHIELD tech in full oxygen masks shoot fire extinguishers and cover from sparks -- largely unable to do anything. Engine 3 is totally dead. A large chunk of the port side in blown off.]

Captain America: Stark, I'm here!

Tony Stark: (V.O) Good. See what we got.

[Tony flies in his Iron Man suit and gets close to the damaged engine.

INSIDE THE SUIT

Tony observes within his viewscreen at the damaged engine and its layouts.]

Iron Man: I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY

[Iron Man begins PULLING on the stuck rotors. Looks over at Steve.]

Iron Man: I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position.

[Iron Man flies into giant cooling conductors. Captain America jumps over to the other side of the broken railing. Captain America gets himself to the control panel and opens it up.]

Iron Man: What's it look like in there?

Captain America: (sighing in annoyance) It seems to run on some form of electricity.

Iron Man: (smug) Well, you're not wrong.

INT. LOWER EQUIPMENT ROOM, CARRIER - DAY

[Natasha continuously crawls under the catwalk. She stops. Then...BOOM. BOOM. BOOM. The room vibrates. Rhythmically. Natasha pulls out her gun and slowly walks out onto the catwalk and spins. ...and then a ROAR. THE HULK. Natasha FIRES a shot into a liquid nitrogen pipe that hits the hulk in face. The HULK SMASHES THE SHIT OUT OF IT. Natasha begins to run through the maze of corridors. The sound the monster is coming. Finally, she reaches and a long corridor. As she runs, behind her, the HULK TEARS up the hallway, coming at her. Natasha turns to see, but the HULK SLAPS her into the wall, SMASHING INTO THE GROUND. The HULK marks his territory. Natasha looks up. A fear she has never felt begins to seep out. The HULK raises his hand and IS KNOCKED OFF HIS FEET BY THOR WHO TACKLES HIM INTO the next room.]

INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT - CONTINUOUS

[Both Thor and HULK roll across the floor. Every person runs the hell out. Thor looks up at this magnificent beast. The HULK stands up and moving like a boxer, wants Thor to make his move. The HULK makes his move. SWING AND A MISS. Thor swings his massive hand and almost knocks HULK off his feet. HULK keeps swinging and missing, pissing him off. Finally, he brings down his arm, but Thor grabs it and wraps around it.]

THOR: We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think!

[HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM FLYING AS HE PUNCHES THOR'S FACE WITH HIS FIST.]

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY

[IRON MAN continuously BLASTS broken debris off the turbine engine. It's bad, but still fixable.]

Captain America (V.O.): The relays are intact. What's our next move?

Iron Man: Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.

EXT. HELICARRIER PORT SIDE - DAY

Captain America: Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!

Iron Man: Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag…

Captain America: Speak English!

Iron Man: See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word.

[Captain America looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.]

INT. HELICARRIER AIRCRAFT PORT - DAY

[Thor smashes into another stack of crates. As he raises his head, he wipes blood off his face, blood from his nose, the growl of the Hulk is not too far. Thor extends his hand out. The Hulk is getting closer. His hand strains toward mid-air. His eyes tight in concentration. The HULK runs right at him. At the last second, MJÖLNIR flies into his hand and Thor smashes the hammer into Hulks chin, Hulk crashes into a jet destroying it. Hulk stands up, shaking his head like `what the fuck just happened.' He SHAKES it off and ANGRILY rips off the TAIL of the jet, TORQUES HIS BODY LIKE A GREEK DISCUS THROWER AND... HURLS THE MASSIVE PLATE AT THOR. Thor SLIDES and DUCKS under the tail. Jumping up, he throws Mjölnir with all his strength, knocking the HULK head over heels. HULK falls down, hammer in hand. HE tries to lift it, but can't. Mjölnir rests atop his hand. Struggle as he may, HULK wraps his hand around the hammer. The hammer doesn't move. To no avail -- he strains with all his might, SCREAMS from the effort, BELLOWING. Thor jumps up again, KNEEING HULK in the face. Thor grabs his hammer, jumps on him, using the hammer as a lock for his CHOKEHOLD. Hulk tries to pull him off.]

Fury: We need full evac on the lower hangar bed.

[Hill nods and walks up and signals some agents. A small device rolls over to their feet.]

Maria: HILL GRENADE!

[The device explodes sending agents flying. In the smoke, Loki’s men enter, guns at the ready. Fury knocks one out, using his gun to shoot at another. While he is taking care of a third, a forth man enters and is about to fire when Hill shoots him in the head. She is pissed and bleeding. Coulson makes his way over to the armory door. Over the intercom...]

INTERCOM VOICE: We’ve got perimeter breach. Hostiles are in SHIELD gear. Call out to every junction.

[Coulson pushes down on a switch and scans his eyeball. Hulk and Thor crash through the floor of the Wishbone lab. Thor lays on the ground, he looks up, and Hulk grabs him by the throat. Fury, Hill, and other agents are shooting toward Loki’s men. The place is chaotic. BrigeTechs are taking cover and hiding from gunfire. Over the intercom]

INTERCOM VOICE: We’ve got the Hulk and Thor on Research Level Four. Levels Two and Three are gone.

Maria: Sir, the Hulk will tear this place apart!

Fury: Get his attention.

Maria: (into earpiece) Escort 6-Oh, proceed to Wishbone and.

[A fighter jet is slowly pulling up to the helicarrier.]

Maria: (over jet radio) ...engage hostile. Don’t get too close.

Young piolet: copy

[The jet flies to where Hulk and Thor are fighting, seemingly evenly matched.]

Young piolet: Target acquired. Target engaged.

[He fires his guns toward Hulk. The barrage of bullets bounce off of Hulk. He roars, running at the window. Hulk crashes through it, leaping at the jet.]

Young piolet: Target angry. Target angry.

[Hulk lands on the nose of the jet and tears at the metal as it swerves in the air. The pilot tries to eject himself but the Hulk grabs him and throws him off to the side. The pilot’s parachute opens and the plane explodes, sending Hulk plummeting to the earth. Iron Man saws off pieces of debris with a laser. He jumps on them, knocking them off the rotors. A pair of Loki’s men engage, one throws a grenade. Cap jumps into the air and slaps it away. He land back on the carrier and fights them off, standing close to the lever. He ends up throwing one of the men off the carrier. Cap jumps onto a catwalk, picks up a machine gun, and begins firing at the last man. Fury is still shooting at the enemies.]

FURY (to himself): They are not getting through here so what the hell

[Barton fires arrows from above and they explode. He fires another which hits the control panel. Fury sees him and begins to shoot, while the arrow, having hit a plug, hacks the helicarrier systems, causing a second engine to malfunction, it’s dead.]

INTERCOM VOICE: Engine One is now in shutdown.

[The helicarrier tilts dangerously. Everyone in the bridge begins rolling.]

SHIELD WORKER: Sir, we’ve lost all power in Engine One.

[Natasha sits in the carnage of the Hulk’s rampage, shaking. She slowly lifts a hand to her earpiece.]

Fury (over Natasha’s earpiece): It’s Barton, he took out our systems. He’s headed for the detention lab. Does anybody copy?

NATASHA (into earpiece): This is Agent Romanoff. I copy.

[Natasha staggers to her feet. Ready. Iron Man is trying to push the rotor.]

FURY (over earpiece): Stark, we’re losing altitude.

INSIDE IRON MAN HELMET:

TONY: Yep, noticed.

[Iron Man flies in between the rotors and begins to push, slowly picking up speed as sparks fly. Cap is forced over the edge by a gunman and falls- almost dropping off the carrier, hanging on by a wire. Thor runs into the room where Loki’s contained. He sees the door slide up and runs over to Loki, only to go straight through him. Loki reappears behind him and closes the door, locking Thor inside.]

LOKI: Are you ever not going to fall for that?

[Barton is walking along a passage catwalk. Natasha appears behind him and he quickly turns and shoots a bow, which flies by her. She pushes his hand. He charges her and she kicks him, then rolls underneath some pipes, popping up on the other side of the catwalk, kicking him in the knee. He shoots another arrow, which she dodges by dropping across to the next passage. Barton follows her. They fight along that catwalk. The fights very even. Barton tries hitting her with the bow and she pulls on the string. They fight some more, headbutting and punching. They both pull daggers. Thor his the cage with his hammer, the cage cracks but it begins to shake off the bolts and shudders.]

LOKI: (laughs) The humans think us immortal. Shall we test that?

[Loki moves to open the chute beneath the cell, dropping Thor to, what for any regular person, would be certain death. Coulson suddenly appears, wielding a large prototype Phase Two weapon.]

AGENT COULSON: Move away please. [Loki steps back from the panel. Coulson gestures to the gun.] Do you like this? We started working on the prototype after you sent the Destroyer. Even I don’t know what it does. Do you wanna find out? [Coulson prepares to fire the weapon when Loki disappears, reappearing behind him and thrusting the point of his spear through Coulson’s chest. He yells and drops to the floor.]

THOR: NO!

[Loki returns to the panel, opening the chute and pressing the button which sends the cell, and Thor, falling from the ship. Natasha and Barton are still fighting. Natasha grabs Barton arm and thrusts it back. He groans as he throws the dagger to his free hand. Natasha grabs that hand too but he hoists her against a wall. Barton grabs Natasha’s hair and pulls, exposing her neck to his dagger. Romanoff sinks her teeth into his arm and he lets go, trying to force her down when she spins, throwing Barton into the railing. He falls to the ground, groaning, then looks up.]

Clint: Natasha! [She sends him a left hook. The cell is still dropping, flipping all over the place. Thor trying desperately to break free from the cell, swinging Mjolnir at the glass sides as he plummets, twisting and turning, through the air. He braces himself against a wall and launches across the space, crashing through the glass and just before the cell slams into the ground. Thor crashes into a field like a meteorite. Coulson is slumped on the floor and Loki turns to leave.]

AGENT COULSON: You’re going to lose.

LOKI: Am I?

AGENT COULSON: It’s in your nature.

LOKI: your heroes are scattered, your floating fortress falls from the sky. Where is my disadvantage?

AGENT COULSON: You lack conviction.

LOKI: I don’t think I-

[Coulson fires the weapon, which shoots a blast of fire similar to that of the Destroyer, sending Loki flying through a wall.]

AGENT COULSON: So that’s what it does.

[Fury is working the controls.]

INTERCOM VOICE: All hands to your stations immediately.

[The helicarrier is still falling. Iron Man is attempting to kick start the engine by manually moving the huge rotors. He is pushing the blades, flying faster and faster until they start spinning on their own and the ship levels off. INSIDE THE HELMET:]

TONY: Cap hit the lever!

[Cap still hangs from the side of the ship by a power cord.]

STEVE: i need a minute here!

TONY: Lever! Now!

[Cap hauls himself up. Iron Man is pushed back up against one of the rotors, now spinning too fast for him to escape.]

TONY (CONT’D): Uh-oh.

[Iron Man is sucked into the blades and is spun wildly around before Cap manages to pull the lever and he is able to fly out. He manages to right himself and flies back to the ship, taking out the gunman shooting at Cap. A jet takes off. Inside it is Loki, who is smiling and watching the carrier. Coulson, slumped on the floor with the gun in his lap. Fury enters and kneels down by him.]

AGENT COULSON: I’m sorry boss. They got rabbited.

FURY: Just stay awake. Eyes on me.

AGENT COULSON: Oh I’m clockin’ out here.

FURY: Not an option.

AGENT COULSON: It’s okay, boss. This was never gonna work- if they didn’t have something- to- [His breathing halts and Fury stands to let the medical team through. He leans against the railing. Hill is having a head wound tended to.]

FURY (over Hill’s earpiece): Agent Coulson is down. [Hill pushes the doctor away. Natasha stands on the catwalk as Barton is dragged away by some agents. She listens intently.]

SHIELD WORKER (over Natasha’s earpiece): A medical team is on its way to your location.

FURY (over Natasha’s earpiece): They’re here.

[Tony and Cap stand together by the engine, quietly listening.]

FURY (over their earpiece): They called it.

[Steve, Tony, and Fury are gathered at a table. Hill stands to the side. Fury pulls a handful of cards out.]

FURY: These were in Phil Coulson’s jacket. Guess he never did get you to sign them. [Fury scatters them on the table. Some are wet with blood.] We’re dead in the air up here. Our communications, location of the cube, Banner, Thor. I got nothing for you. Lost my one good eye. Think I had that coming. [Fury begins to make his way around the table to Steve and Tony.] Yes, we were going to build an arsenal with the Tesseract. I never put all my chips on that number, though, because I was playing something even riskier. There was an idea, Stark knows this, called the Avengers Initiative. [Fury reaches a chair between Tony and Steve] The idea was to bring together a group of remarkable people, see if they could become something more. See if they could work together when we needed them to, to fight the battles that we never could. Phil Coulson died still believing in that idea, in heroes. [Tony stands and walks out.] Well, it’s an old fashioned notion.

[Thor is making his way over to Mjolnir. He hesitates to pick it up, fearing he is not worthy. He clenches his fist. Banner wakes, naked, in a pile of rubble. There is a SECURITY GUARD standing over him.]

SECURITY GUARD: You fell out of the sky.

BANNER: Did I hurt anyone?

SECURITY GUARD: There’s nobody around here to get hurt. You did scare the hell out of some pigeons though.

BANNER: Lucky.

SECURITY GUARD: Or just good aim. You were awake when you fell.

BANNER: You saw?

SECURITY GUARD: The whole thing, right through the ceiling. Big and green and buck ass nude. Here [He throws Banner a some clothes, which he begins to pull on.] didn’t think those would fit you until you shrunk down to a regular size fella.

BANNER: Thank you.

SECURITY GUARD: Are you an alien?

BANNER: What?

SECURITY GUARD: From outer space, an alien?

BANNER: No.

SECURITY GUARD: Well then, son, you’ve got a condition. [Banner steps down from the pile of rubble in the warehouse, pulling on the shirt.] So, which one is it?

BANNER: Sorry?

SECURITY GUARD: Are you a big guy that gets all little, or a little guy that, ah sometimes blows up large?

BANNER: You know- I’m not even sure.

SECURITY GUARD: You got somewhere to go?

BANNER: Stark Tower. I- no. [The Security Guard looks at him.] Yes.

SECURITY GUARD: I’d expect some confusion of the mind, since your body’s kind of all over the place, but it has to be one or the other. [The Security Guard gestures Banner to follow him.]

BANNER: I know where I could do the most good, but it’s where I can do the most harm.

SECURITY GUARD: Well, that’s no different than anybody else. [They walk out the doors.] Me? I’m here is Jersey where I can’t do much of either. And since I’m not likely to move on from this placement, you may as well- pilfer my ride. [The Security Guard gestures to an old motorcycle.]

BANNER: I don’t know which way to go.

SECURITY GUARD: Your mind’s already made up, son. The rest of you will follow.

[Barton is strapped to a hospital bed. Natasha sits by him as he strains against the bonds, breathing hard and shaking his head.]

NATASHA: Clint, you’re gonna be alright.

BARTON: You know that? Is that what you know? I gotta go in though. I have to flush him out.

NATASHA: You gotta level out, it’s gonna take time.

BARTON: You don’t understand. Have you ever had someone take your brain and play? Pull you out and stuff something else in? You know what it’s like to be unmade?

NATASHA: You know that I do.

BARTON: Why am I back? How did you get him out?

NATASHA: Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head

BARTON: Thanks. [Natasha begins to remove the strap restraints.] Natasha, how many agents?

NATASHA: Don’t. Don’t do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.

BARTON: Loki. He get away?

NATASHA: Yeah. I don’t suppose you know where?

BARTON: Didn’t need to know. Didn’t ask. He’s gonna make his play soon though. Today. [Natasha walks to the door.]

NATASHA: We gotta stop him.

BARTON: Yeah? Who’s we?

NATASHA: I don’t know. Whoever is left.

BARTON: Well, if I put an arrow through Loki’s eye socket I’d sleep better I suppose.

NATASHA: Now you sound like you.

BARTON: But you don’t. You’re a spy, not a soldier. Now you want to wade into a war. Why? What did Loki do to you?

NATASHA: He didn’t, I just

BARTON: Natasha.

NATASHA: I’ve been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I’d like to wipe it out.

[Tony stand over looking where the cylindrical glass cage used to be. Steve enters the room.]

STEVE: Was he married?

TONY: No. There was a uh- cellist, I think.

STEVE: I’m sorry. He seemed like a good man.

TONY: He was an idiot. [Tony and Steve slowly move toward each other.]

STEVE: Why? For believing?

TONY: For taking on Loki alone.

STEVE: He was doing his job.

TONY: He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have

STEVE: Sometimes there isn’t a way out, Tony.

TONY: Right. How did that work for him?

STEVE: Is this the first time you’ve lost a soldier?

TONY: We are not soldiers! I’m not marching to Fury’s file.

STEVE: Neither am I. He’s got the same blood on his hands that Loki does, but right now we gotta put that behind us and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list [Tony looks down at the place Coulson fell, there is a dent in the wall.]

TONY: He made it personal.

STEVE: That’s not the point.

TONY: That is the point. That’s Loki’s point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?

STEVE: To tear us apart.

TONY: Yeah, divide and conquer is great but- he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That’s what he wants. He wants to beat us, he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.

STEVE: Right. I caught his act in Stuttgart.

TONY: Yeah. That’s just previews, this is- this is opening night. And Loki, he’s a full-tail diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built to the skies with his name plastered....Son of-a-bitch.

[Selvig is setting up the device to open the portal. Barton is in the restroom and Natasha it sitting on the bed. Steve is suited up, he enters. Natasha stands.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Time to go.

NATASHA: Go where?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I’ll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets? [Barton enters from the restroom, drying his hands.]

BARTON: I can. [Cap looks at Natasha, who nods.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Got a suit?

BARTON: Yeah.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Then suit up.

[In the field, Thor lifts Mjolnir to the skies. Cap straps his shield onto his back. Barton puts on his quiver. Natasha powers up her Widow’s Bite. Her bracelets light up. Tony is in a workshop making repairs to his helmet. Agents walk by in the background. The helmet lights up. Thor summons a bolt of lightening. The field grows dark, with clouds. His armor slowly begins to fly on. Barton and Natasha walk side-by-side behind Captain America, who is leading them through the lower hangar bay. They’re all ready to kick butt. Thor’s armor finally gathers. Cap, Barton, and Natasha walk onto the jet.]

SHIELD ENGINEER: Hey, you guys aren’t authorized to be in here.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Son, just don’t!

[Fury is holding Coulson’s cards, over looking the air deck. Hill walks up behind him.]

MARIA HILL: Sir.

FURY: Agent Hill.

MARIA HILL: Those cards, they were in Coulson’s locker, not in his jacket.

FURY (staring at the cards): They needed the push.

[He sees the quinjet and Iron Man take off towards the city.]

INTERCOM VOICE: We’ve got unauthorized departure from Bay Six.

FURY: They found it. Get our communications back up, whatever you have to do. I want eyes on everything.

MARIA HILL: Yes, sir.

[Iron Man is flying toward the city, his suit is losing power. He continues to make his way to Stark Tower. Selvig, still under the control of Loki, is ready to activate the device he created with the Tesseract. Iron Man slowly reaches.]

JARVIS: Sir, I turned off the arc reactor. The device is already self-sustaining

IRON MAN: Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.

Erik: It’s too late! She can’t stop now. She wants to show us something! A new universe.

IRON MAN: (annoyed) Okay. [He fires at the barrier around the device, but the Tesseract deflects it, sending the energy outwards, knocking Selvig out and Iron Man back.]

JARVIS: The barrier is pure energy. It’s unbreachable.

IRON MAN: Yeah, I got that. [Iron Man looks down to see Loki on the platform outside the penthouse.] plan B.

JARVIS: Sir, the Mark Seven is not ready for deployment.

TONY: Then skip the spinning rims, we’re on the clock. [Tony lands and as his suit is deconstructed, he walks through into the tower penthouse, watching Loki carefully. Loki walks in as well. Inside the tower, Loki walks forward as Tony goes behind his bar.]

LOKI: Please tell me you’re going to appeal to my humanity.

TONY: Uh- actually, I’m planning to threaten you.

LOKI: You should have left your armor on for that.

TONY: Yeah, it’s seen a bit of mileage. You’ve got the uh- blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?

LOKI: Stalling me won’t change anything.

TONY: No, no, no- threatening. No drink? You sure? I’m having one.

LOKI: The Chitauri are coming, nothing will change that. What have I to fear?

TONY: The Avengers. It’s what we call ourselves, sort of like a team. ’Earth’s Mightiest Heroes’ type of thing.

LOKI: Yes, I’m met them.

TONY: Yeah, takes us a while to get any traction, I’ll give you that one. But, let’s do a head count here. Your brother, the Demi-God; [Loki turns away and Tony slips a pair of bracelets onto his wrists.] A super soldier, a living legend who kind of lives up to the legend; a man with breath-taking anger management issues; a couple of master assassins, and you, big fella, you’ve managed to piss off every single one of them.

LOKI: That was the plan. [Tony begins to walk to the center of the penthouse where Loki is.]

TONY: Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they’ll come for you.

LOKI: I have an army.

TONY: We have a Hulk.

LOKI: Oh, I thought the beast had wandered off.

TONY: Yeah- you’re missing the point. There’s no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it’s too much for us, but it’s all on you. ’Cause if we can’t protect the earth, you can be damned well sure we’ll avenge it. [Loki walks over to Tony, pointing his scepter.]

LOKI: How will your friends have time for me, when they’re so busy fighting you? [Loki walks up to Tony, and places the tip of the scepter over his heart. It clinks against the arc reactor.] This usually works.

TONY: Well, performance issues. You know? [Loki grabs Tony by the throat and throws him across the room.] JARVIS, anytime now. [Loki grabs Tony again.]

LOKI: You will all fall before me.

TONY: JARVIS. Deploy. [Loki sends Stark crashing through the window, and plummeting toward the ground.] Deploy! [Behind Loki, the Mark Seven suit goes rocketing past and out after Stark It catches up to him and, locking on to the bracelets, attaches to him and unfolds to a full suit. Tony manages to stop his fall moments before he hits the ground and flies back up to Loki at the window.] And there’s one other person you pissed off! His name is Phil. [Iron Man fires a repulsor blast at Loki and he is knocked down. Meanwhile the device has powered up and shoots a stream of blue energy at the sky, which opens into a portal where the Chitauri army waits. The hoards of aliens begin to fly through] Right! Army. [Iron Man speeds towards the incoming army, shooting at them. The Chitauri fire back at him. He fires more blasts, spinning out the way, dodging the exploding debris. Iron Man continues flying higher. BAM! He is hit by a Chitauri hovercraft. He rights himself and releases mini-missiles at the Chitauri, blowing them up. The citizens get out of their taxis and vehicles, looking to the sky. They run for their lives as the Chitauri come toward themb blowing up cars, buildings, and the streets. The Chitauri fire at the restaurant. WAITRESS and her co-workers are left outside, they duck and take cover from the shots. When they get the chance, they take off inside the cafe. her co-workers, and customers look out the window at the destruction that the aliens cause. Loki walks out on the pad, his Asgardian armor materializing as he looks out over the chaos below. Suddenly, Thor lands lower on the platform.]

THOR: Loki, turn off the Tesseract or I’ll destroy it!

LOKI: You can’t. There is no stopping it. There is only the war!

THOR: So be it. [Loki leaps at Thor and the two begin to fight, a blast from Loki’s scepter sending one of the letters of STARK falling to the ground. Civilians are running for their lives, screaming. Several police cars show up. POLICE SERGEANT and YOUNG COP step out of their car where they look up at the Chitauri. The quinjet flies toward Stark Tower, which is beaming the blue stream to the sky.]

NATASHA (V.O): (over Tony’s helmet) Stark, we’re on a three heading north east.

TONY: What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing that park, I’m gonna lay ’em out for you. [Iron Man flies fast, leading a troop of Chitauri, past Stark Tower where Thor and Loki are still fight each other. He flies around the building, takes a sharp turn causing some of the troop to crash. Barton and Natasha are piloting the plane. They release the canon gun. Iron Man flies past them at high-speed and they release continuous fire at the troop of Chitauri in front of them. They fly through the smoke and up to Stark Tower.]

JARVIS: Sir, we have more incoming.

TONY: Fine. Let’s keep them occupied. [The quinjet comes around a building, blasting the army who are firing at them. One of the wings are grazed by Chitauri gunfire. They slow as the come to. Thor smashes Loki’s head into a glass on the catwalk of Stark Tower. They still fight.]

BARTON: Nat! I see ’em. [Loki spots the jet. He throws Thor to the floor, then blasts one of the jet’s rotor blades with his scepter it catches fire. Thor sees, angry, charges Loki and tackles him as the quinjet falls to the ground. Loki and Thor throw punches. INSIDE THE QUINJET: Natasha and Barton hold on for their dear lives. Cap grabs a hold of the roof as the plane grazes buildings and crashes to the street. Natasha and Barton remove their headsets, open the ramp, and Cap and them exit the jet.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: We gotta get back up there. [They run onto the overpass, looking up at Stark Tower. They freeze as they see a giant armored Leviathan a warship of the Chitauri, flies through the portal with more warriors. They warriors jump onto the side of buildings and into the buildings where they shoot civilians.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Stark, are you seeing this?

TONY: Seeing. still working on believing, Where’s Banner? Has he shown up yet?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Banner?

TONY: Just keep me posted. [Iron Man flies after the Leviathan.] JARVIS, find me a soft spot. [The Leviathan tears through buildings, roaring. Thor holds Loki down and gestures to the chaos in Manhattan below them.]

THOR: Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?

LOKI: It’s too late. It’s too late to stop it.

THOR: No. We can, together. [Loki pauses, then slips a knife into his hand and stabs Thor.]

LOKI: Sentiment! [Thor gets back up and lifts Loki, then drops him. Loki rolls himself off the edge of the building, only to land on one of the flying Chitauri crafts. He flies off with a troop of Chitauri. Barton and Natasha are crouched behind a taxi cab. Cap runs over.]

BARTON: We’ve got civilians trapped. [Loki flies over them on the flying crafts.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA; Loki. [Loki and his following troop blowing up the streets. A JAPANESE FAMILY runs away as they are almost shot. A flying craft flies through a Dr. Pepper truck. Loki and the troop come to a busy street the one where the YOUNG COP and POLICE SERGEANT are at and blow up cars. The police and civilians run for their lives. BACK TO OVERPASS: They’re fish in a barrel down there. Natasha stands and fires both her guns at an incoming group of Chitauri.]

NATASHA: We got this. It’s good. Go!

CAPTAIN AMERICA: You think you can hold them off?

BARTON: Captain, it would be my genuine pleasure. [Barton grabs a arrow and shoots it, hitting one alien in the head, the arrow quickly separates into more arrows, killing three Chitauri aliens. Cap leaves the other two fighting and jumps off an overpass, rolling onto a bus and into the street. Barton helps people off a bus as Natasha shoots her pistols at Chitauri. He runs over to Natasha and begins releasing arrows as she shoots.]

NATASHA: Just like Budapest all over again!

BARTON: You and I remember Budapest very differently. [Cap runs through the street towards a group of police shooting at Chitauri. He is running and jumping off cars. YOUNG COP It’s gonna be an hour before they scramble the National Guard.]

POLICE SERGEANT: National Guard! [The two duck to avoid a Chitauri blast.] Does the army know what’s happening here? Do we? [YOUNG COP Cap jumps down on the car in front of them.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (gesturing) You need men in these buildings. There are people inside and they can be running right into the line of fire. You take them to the basement or through the subway, you keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.

POLICE SERGEANT: Why the hell should I take orders from you? [Two Chitauri warriors attack Cap, he fights them off easily then turns back to the two men. The two cops stand shock. The POLICE SERGEANT reacts and walks back to his men.] I need men in those buildings, lead the people down and away from the streets. (into radio) We gonna set up a perimeter all the way down to 39th street. [Iron Man fires a stream of ammunition at the Leviathan, which turns to follow him.]

TONY: well, we got its attention, what the hell was step two [Stark flies off and the Leviathan follows him. Barton and Natasha are fighting warrior up close. Barton trips one with his bow. He pulls an arrow and stabs it. Natasha is using her Widow’s Bite on a warrior as she sits on his neck. Natasha picks up a Chitauri weapon and is using it to fight off the warriors. One warrior tries to slice her head off and she slides, dodging it. She jumps to her feet and hits it in the head with the sharp part of the weapon. Barton knocks over another warrior. He grabs an arrow and shoots behind himself, killing another warrior. He marches over to another Chitauri and battles him. Meanwhile Natasha is taking on three warriors by herself. She shoots one, then spins around and stabs one in the neck. Barton is tackled to the cement by a warrior. He groans and stabs one with a arrow, then throws the warrior to the ground. Out of nowhere, another Chitauri attacks him and kicks him onto the trunk of a cab. Natasha stabs a warrior with the Chitauri weapon. She hits the other over the head. She spins to her knees, aims in one direction, and fires. Another Chitauri charges, she spins the weapon in that direction and fires. She continuously fires as Barton fights more aliens in the background. Barton’s head is slammed into the roof of a car. He is then thrown to the ground by a warrior. He’s tired, but he continues to fight. Natasha takes on two more Chitauri. They back her onto a taxi cab. They hit after her but she moves her head out of the way. She gets her footing, and tries to hit them with the weapon but a warrior grabs it and throws her feet into the air. She lands on the car and screams in pain, breathing heavily. Barton shoots more warriors around them, they are becoming overwhelmed but they keep on. Natasha regains her strength, runs to the aid of Barton by firing at Chitauri as he slides and shoots at Chitauri. Natasha and Barton are becoming surrounded by Chitauri and Cap rejoins them-- hitting Chitauri out the way. Thor drops down from the tower and kills Chitauri with a bolt of lightening.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: What’s the story upstairs?

THOR: The power surrounding the cube is impenetrable.

TONY: (over their earpieces) Thor is right, we gotta deal with these guys.

NATASHA: How do we do this?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: As a team.

THOR: I have unfinished business with Loki.

BARTON: (readying some arrows) Oh yeah! Get in line.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Save it. Loki’s gonna keep this fight focused on us and that’s what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he’s gonna need us to [He stops, seeing Banner arrive on a motorbike. Cap and the others walk over and Banner dismounts, surveying the damage.]

BANNER: So, this all seems horrible.

NATASHA: I’ve seen worse.

BANNER: Sorry.

NATASHA: No, we could- use a little worse.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: (into earpiece) Stark, we got him.

TONY: (over Cap’s earpiece) Banner?

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Just like you said.

TONY: Then tell him to suit up. I’m bringing the party to you. [Iron Man flies around a corner and towards the group, followed closely by the Leviathan].

NATASHA: (stuttering) I don’t see how that’s a party. [Iron Man draws the creature low and it skims the road. Banner turns an begins to walk away, towards the Leviathan.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Doctor Banner, now might be a really good time for you to get angry.

BANNER: That’s my secret, Cap. I’m always angry. [Banner transforms into the Hulk and punches the Leviathan, smashing it into the ground.]

IRON MAN: Hold On! [Iron Man blasts a missile at the creature and it explodes. Barton ditches. Thor stands taking the blast. Cap shields Natasha. The Chitauri cry out. 360 spin: The Avengers stand in a circle, Hulk roars, Hawkeye nocks an arrow, Thor readies Mjolnir, Black Widow loads her gun, Captain America stands ready and Iron Man hovers above them, landing next to the Hulk. Loki looks down from above.]

LOKI: Send the rest. [The Avengers look up, watching as more Leviathans and hundreds of warriors fly through the portal.]

NATASHA: Guys?

IRON MAN: Call it, Captain.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we’re gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or you turn it to ash.

BARTON: (to Iron Man) Wanna give me a lift?

IRON MAN: Right. Better clench up, Legolas. [Iron Man grabs Barton and flies him up to the top of a building, then flies off.]

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Thor! You gotta try and bottleneck that portal, slow ’em down. You got the lightning, light the bastards up. [Thor swings Mjolnir, flying off.] (to Natasha) You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk! [Hulk turns around facing Cap, who points at him.] Smash! [Hulk grins, then leaps off, taking out dozens of warriors that are on the sides of the buildings grabbing them, smashing them, throwing them. Hulk leaps across the air and slaps a flying craft out of the air. Thor lands at to the top of the Chrysler building and summons a bolt of lightning. He sends it shooting out towards the portal, taking out warriors and Leviathan. Fury is at his command center watching the news footage. Hill approaches Fury.]

MARIA HILL: Sir. The council is on.

[Barton atop a building, fires relentlessly at Chitauri.]

BARTON: Stark. You gotta lot of strays on your tail. [A troop of Chitauri warriors are following Iron Man as he flies above the streets.]

TONY: Just tryin’ to keep them off the streets.

BARTON: Well they can’t bank worth a damn. [Barton shoots at crafts. He misses, shooting behind his back without looking but the arrow hits another craft, causing it to explode.]

TONY: I will roger that. [Iron Man flies by Hawkeye who fires at the crafts, blowing them up. Iron Man swerves behind two crafts and fires at them. He continues taking a series of quick turns as the Chitauri quickly drop, crash, or follow.] Oh- boy. [Iron Man goes flying through a tunnel and turns tightly at the end, sending the last few crafts crashing into a building.] Nice call. What else you got?

BARTON: (over radio) Well, Thor’s taking out a squadron down on 6th.

TONY: And he didn’t invite me! [Elsewhere, a Leviathan approaches an office building and the inhabitants look on, scared. We hear fast & heavy footsteps. It’s Hulk charging through the building, jumping through the window and pulling the creature away. from the building. Natasha is going to town as she fights a warrior. She is thrown upon of a car. As the warrior is about to attack, Natasha uses her Widow’s Bite on it, shocking him out. She grabs the Chitauri gun and shoots him back. Someone lands behind her so she quickly turns and aims BUT it’s Cap. She stands down and leans against a car.]

NATASHA: Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don’t close that portal.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: Our biggest guns couldn’t touch it.

NATASHA: Well, maybe it’s not about guns.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: You wanna get up there, you’re gonna need a ride. [Natasha glances up, seeing the Chitauri crafts fly past. She makes her way over to the other side of the overpass.]

NATASHA: I got a ride. I could use a boost though.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: You sure about this? [Cap readies his shield in front of him.]

NATASHA: Yeah, it’s gonna be fun! [Natasha runs at Rogers, who uses his shield to boost her up. She grabs on to a passing Chitauri vehicle. Cap looks up as she flies off in the distance. He looks to his right and there are more warriors coming. Natasha climbs aboard the craft, pulls a dagger and stabs a warrior. She spin kicks him off the craft. She makes her way to the other one and uses him to control the vehicle.] Turn, turn, Ah! [Two crafts come up on Natasha, firing at her. She swerves to avoid them. The crafts are blasted away by Iron Man, who fires away at a fleet behind him. Iron Man takes a turn, coming up on the overpass, where he knocks Chitauri aliens over and lands by Cap, who is fighting and kicking Chitauri. Cap lifts his shield. Iron Man reflects a repulsor blast off the shield, taking out the surrounding warriors. He then flies up the side of a building, hitting more warriors. At the top of which Barton fires into the head of a Chitauri. Two blast are fired at him. He ducks and returns a shot by firing an arrow. The arrow hits the pilot of a craft which falls and gets hit by a Leviathan. On the creature is the Hulk who is fighting off warriors. Thor then lands on the same creature and takes on warriors with Hulk. When Hulk breaks a piece of the creature’s armor off, Thor uses Mjolnir to summon lightening and drive the metal into its head. The creature crashes to the ground, landing in, Thor and Hulk dismount the creature and stand together, breathing heavily. Suddenly, Hulk punches Thor out of shot. Selvig, having been knocked out when Tony tried to stop the Tesseract awakens. He looks around, he’s free from Loki’s control. Army Tanks, and soldiers begin to arrive on scene. They shoot at the Chitauri, a little amazed of what is going on. Cap is on the ground, holding off a Chitauri’s weapon. He pushes the warrior off and onto sharp debris. As he stand]

BARTON: (over earpiece) Captain, the bank on 42nd, past Madison. They cornered a lot of civilians in there.

CAPTAIN AMERICA: I’m on it. [Cap walks off. In the bank, a crown of civilians are surrounded by three armed warriors. Cap jumps through a window and begins to 183 fight. He snaps the neck of one and throws him into the pit.] Everyone clear out! [He is then grabbed by a warrior, who he fights and breaks free. A grenade-like device goes off and it blasts Cap out a window and onto a car after his mask is pulled back from his face. He stands silently while police lead the civilians from the building.]

COUNCILWOMAN (V.O): Director Fury. The council has made a decision. [Fury is talking with the World Security Council over his command center.]

FURY: (angry) I recognize the council has made a decision, but given that it’s a stupid ass decision, I’ve elected to ignore it.

COUNCILMAN: Director, you’re closer than any of our subs, you scramble that jet [Hill is breathing nervously, panicking, as she listens and watches.]

FURY: (O.S) (angry) That is the island of Manhattan, Councilman. Until I’m certain my team can’t hold it, I will not order a nuclear strike against a civilian population.

COUNCILMAN: If we don’t hold them in the air, we lose everything.

FURY: I’d send that bird out, we already have. [Fury hangs up on them. Natasha on board a Chitauri craft. She is shot at from behind and turns to see Loki, on another craft, following behind. She continues on toward the building Barton is at.]

NATASHA: Oh you! (into radio) Hawkeye! [Barton sees her coming in the distance.]

BARTON: Nat, what are you doing?

NATASHA: Uh, a little help! [Barton nocks an arrow, waiting for Natasha and Loki to come past.]

BARTON: I got it. [Barton aims and fires. Loki catches the arrow inches from his face and looks first at it, then at Barton, smirking. The arrow explodes, sending Loki crashing onto the platform at the top of Stark Tower. Natasha jumps off the craft. She flips in the air, landing onto the roof. She rolls, sticking the landing. She flips her hair back. Loki looks up at Romanoff when Hulk leaps up, grabbing him and throwing him through the window of the penthouse. He roars and moves towards Loki, who gets to his feet.]

LOKI: ENOUGH! You are, all of you, beneath me! I AM GOD, YOU DULL CREATURE, AND I WILL NOT BE BULLIED BY- [Hulk grabs Loki by the feet and smashes him into the floor repeatedly, then throws him aside and walks away.]

HULK: Puny God. [Loki whimpers in pain. He has been beaten into submission. Natasha walks toward the Tesseract.]

SELVIG: (O.S) The scepter. [Natasha turns and walks over to Selvig.]

NATASHA: Doctor. [She kneels.]

SELVIG: Loki’s scepter, the energy- the Tesseract can’t fight. You can’t protect against yourself.

NATASHA: It’s not your fault. You didn’t know what you were doing.

SELVIG: Well, actually I think I did. I built in a safety to cut the power source.

NATASHA: Loki’s scepter.

SELVIG: It may be able to close the portal. And I’m looking right at it. [Selvig looks down to the platform below, where Loki’s scepter lies dropped from when Hulk took him out. Thor is aboard a craft, fighting Chitauri. The craft swerves when a Leviathan crashes through a building, followed closely by Stark, who is shooting at it with lasers]

JARVIS: Sir, we will lose power before we penetrate that shell. [Iron Man pulls away from the Leviathan. He flies fast.]

TONY: JARVIS, you ever hear the tale of Jonah?

JARVIS: I wouldn’t consider him a role model. [Iron Man’s knee plates open, pushing out blades. He is heading directly toward the creature’s mouth. He flies through it. Blowing up the creature’s insides and out the tail end. He crashes to the ground but gets to his feet, only to be shot down again by warriors. Barton is attacked by warriors on the rook. He reaches for an arrow, but his quiver is empty. He instead uses the bow to fight them off. Looking up at the sky and seeing hundreds of approaching flying crafts, he pulls a single arrow from the body of a Chitauri and changes its head with the push of a button on his bow. In slo-mo, The Chitauri fire and Barton leaps off the building as it explodes, twisting in mid-air, then firing the arrow. Its head opens up into a grappling hook which attaches to the side of the building. Barton swings from the wire still attached to his bow and crashes through a window into a lower floor of the building. Hulk being attacked by Chitauri warriors. He throws them off and turns his attention to the sky, where dozens of crafts are flying over him, and roars. They all fire at once and Hulk is encompassed in smoke and flame. He roars. A jet is being lifted from the hangar and to the deck.]

COUNCILWOMAN: (over radio) Director Fury is no longer in command. Override seven-alpha-one-one.

JET PILOT: Seven-alpha-one-one confirmed. We’re go for takeoff. [Hill notices something on her command center.]

MARIA HILL: (to Fury) SIR, WE HAVE A BIRD IN MOTION! [Fury runs out of the bridge.] (into earpiece) Anyone on the deck we have a rogue bird. We need to shut it down! Repeat, takeoff is not authorized! [Fury runs onto the deck with a missile launcher and fires, taking the plane out. A second jet takes off and Fury lifts his gun but it is too far. Fury closes the door to the deck.]

FURY: Stark, you hear me? You have a missile headed straight for the city. [Iron Man is down on the ground.]

IRON MAN: How long?

FURY: (over radio) Three minutes. Max. Stay load can wipe out mid-town.

TONY: JARVIS, put everything we got into the thrusters

JARVIS: I just did. [Iron Man blasts away warriors and flies off elsewhere. The jet fires the nuke towards the city and turns around.]

JET PILOT: Package is sent. Detonation in two minutes, thirty seconds. Mark.

[In slow-mo, Cap and Thor catch their respective hammer and shield. Cap and Thor turn and fight off Chitauri warriors. Cap is shot in the ribs and drops to the ground, Thor sends a car rolling towards some of them and them throws Mjolnir in the other way. He helps Captain to his feet.]

THOR: You ready for another bout?

STEVE: What, you gettin’ sleepy? [Natasha has retrieved Loki’s scepter and Selvig is setting up his equipment. He points to the device.]

SELVIG: Right at the crown! [Natasha begins to push the spear through the barrier surrounding the cube, it’s hard to break.]

NATASHA: (into earpiece) I can close it. Can anybody copy? I can shut the portal down! [Steve hears and reacts.]

STEVE: Do it!

TONY: (over Cap’s earpiece) No, wait.

STEVE: Stark, these things are still coming!

TONY: I got a nuke coming in, it’s gonna blow in less than a minute. [Stark flies towards the missile, following closely behind it.] And I know just where to put it. [Iron Man grabs hold of it he begins to redirect it toward the city.]

STEVE: (over radio) Stark, you know that’s a one way trip.

TONY: Save the rest for the turn J.

JARVIS: Sir, shall I try Miss Potts?

TONY: Might as well. [A plane is slowly flying through the sky. Pepper is watching the news with three others.]

REPORTER: (V.O) Streets in New York City have become a battle ground. The army is here trying to contain the violence but clearly it is outmatch [Her phone starts to vibrate but she ignores it. Fury and most of the other workers are watching the same report.] Billionaire Tony Stark’s Iron Man

[Iron Man is flying with the missile. Tony is thinking hard and hold. As Iron Man flies by, Thor and Cap look to the sky. Iron Man redirects the missile, barely missing Stark Tower, and pushes it up towards the portal. The rest of the Avengers look on. Everyone on the helicarrier cheers in excitement. Fury smiles. Iron Man lets the nuke go as all the lights in his suit go out.]

JARVIS: (cutting off) Sorry, Mis [He watches as the missile hits the Chitauri mother ship and it explodes. The Chitauri warriors collapse, and the Leviathans fall from the sky. Thor and Cap look around as they do. Tony’s eyes close as he falls slowly toward the portal. Natasha stands waiting.]

NATASHA: Come on, Stark.

CAP: Close it. [Natasha plunges the scepter into the heart of the device. Just as the portal closes, Tony falls through back to earth. The Avengers look up and see Tony reappear.] Son of a gun! [Iron Man plummets to the ground.]

THOR: He’s not slowing down. [Thor prepares to fly at Stark and catch him when the Hulk grabs him out of the air, slides down the side of a building and crashes to the ground in front of Thor and Cap. Hulk throws Iron Man off him and Thor and Cap run over. Thor pulls off Iron Man’s face plate and Cap listens for a heartbeat, then sees the arc reactor is not glowing. Suddenly the Hulk roars and beats his chest. Tony, shocked, gasps and opens his eyes, looking around.]

TONY: What the hell? What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me.

STEVE: We won.

TONY: Alright, Hey. Alright. Good job, guys. Let’s just not come in tomorrow. Let’s just take a day. You ever tried shawarma? There’s a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don’t know what it is, but I wanna try it.

THOR: We’re not finished yet.

TONY: And then shawarma after? [Loki crawls over to a stair and turns to see the Avengers surrounding him. Hawkeye has an arrow aimed at his face. Natasha is holding his scepter. Hulk growls.]

LOKI: If it’s all the same to you, I’ll have that drink now.

MALE REPORTER: (V.O) Despite the dev [There is a montage of shots from television news. The dialogue speaking.] devastation of what has been confirmed as an extraterrestrial attack, the extraordinary heroics of the group known as the Avengers

MALE CITIZEN: It’s really great knowing they’re out there, you know. That someone’s watching over us.

FEMALE CITIZEN: I love you, Thor!

HUSBAND: I just don’t feel safe with those thing out there.

WIFE: It seems like there’s a lot they’re not telling us.

STAN LEE: Superheroes? In New York? Give me a break!

THE SENATOR: These so called heroes have to be held responsible for the destruction done to the city. This was their fight. Where are they now? [The Avengers and Selvig all walk to the center of a footbridge. Tony is carrying a briefcase, Thor has Loki in a muzzle and handcuffs, Barton, Natasha, Banner, and Steve walk from cars.]

REPORTER: (V.O) Tough questions are being asked about the Avengers themselves, their sudden appearance and equally sudden disappearance.

WAITRESS: (V.O) What, that this is all somehow their fault? [On Fury’s screen is the WAITRESS talking on CNN.] Captain America saved my life. Wherever he is, and wherever any of them are, I would just- I would wanna say thank you. [On the four screens above are the coucil members].

COUNCILMAN 2: Where are the Avengers?

FURY: I’m not currently tracking their whereabouts. I’d say they’ve earned a leave of absence.

COUNCILWOMAN: (O.S) And the Tesseract? [Selvig take a glass cylinder out of a truck. Tony opens his case, which is on the ground. Banner holds the Cube with some tongs and puts it into the glass cylinder Selvig has. Over this footage]

FURY: (V.O) The Tesseract is where belongs...out of our reach.

COUNCILMAN: That’s not your call.

FURY: I didn’t make it. I just didn’t argue with the god that did. [Thor is smiling as he shakes hands and says goodbye to Selvig.]

COUNCILMAN: (V.O) So you let him take it... [Loki is bound and gagged in the muzzle, he is mad. As he looks upon Natasha, she whispers something into Barton’s ear that makes him smile.] and the war criminal Loki, who should be answering for his crime.

FURY: (V.O) Oh I think he will be. [Thor holds the cylinder that has the Tesseract in it. He gestures it to Loki, who grabs one end of the cylinder and Thor has the other, he nods to the others and twists the device, which lights up and the two vanish into the sky as the group looks on. In front of Tony’s new car, Steve and him shake hands.]

COUNCILWOMAN: I don’t think you understand what you’ve started... [Natasha takes a duffel bag out of the backseat of a SHIELD car. She hands it to Banner as Barton heads to the driver’s seat.] ..letting The Avengers loose on this world. They’re dangerous. [Banner and Tony get into his new car and drive off]

FURY: (V.O) They surely are, and the whole world knows it. Every world knows it!

COUNCILMAN: Was that the point in all this? A statement. [Steve is riding a motorcycle. He smiles.]

FURY: (V.O) A promise. [The council signs off and Fury exits the room.]

MARIA HILL: (V.O) Sir, how does it work now...? [Hill and Fury make their way across the bridge while talking.]...They’ve gone their separate ways, some pretty extremely far. We get into a situation like this again, what happens then?

FURY: They’ll come back! The reach the air deck.

MARIA HILL: Really sure about that?

FURY: I am. [Fury looks out over the helicarrier.]

MARIA HILL: Why?

FURY: Because we’ll need them to. [Hill nods, in respect. She turns and walks back over the bridge and takes a folder from a SHIELD agent. Fury stands proud on the air deck. Pepper and Stark are looking at plans for a new tower. The huge STARK on the side of the tower has been destroyed, save for the letter "A". The Other kneels at the feet of another alien. THE OTHER The humans, they are not the cowering wretches we were promised. They stand. They are unruly and therefore cannot be ruled. DISEMBODIED FIGURE in a chair stands. The Other bows, like he is in pain.]

THE OTHER: (CONT’D) To challenge them, is to court Death. [DISEMBODIED FIGURE turns and smiles, revealing himself to be the mad titan himself

HAWARMA JOINT- DAY The Avengers are sitting around a table, eating, stuffing their faces. They are silent, no one makes a peep. The 221 workers are cleaning up this destroyed place. The place is silent] 

[Marvel Opening Credits]

[radio transmission sound]

[Asgardian PA]: This is the Asgardian refugee vessel Statesman! We are under assault, I repeat, we are under assault – The engines are dead, life support failing! Requesting aid from any vessel within range... We are 22 jump points out of Asgard. Our crew is made up of Asgardian families, we have very few soldiers here! This is not a war craft, I repeat, this is not a war craft!

[Inside the ship, Ebony Maw walks among the bodies of dead Asgardians. He steps over them as he speaks with no mind, as if they were scattered pieces of dirty clothing on a bedroom floor.]

Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice. You have had the privilege of being saved by the Great Titan. You may think this is suffering. No... It is salvation. Universal scales tip toward balance because of your sacrifice. Smile... For even in death, you have become Children of Thanos.

[Loki is seen with the Black Order. He watches Thanos.]

Thanos: [Looking out the large window.] I know what it's like to lose. To feel so desperately that you're right... yet to fail, nonetheless. [grabs Thor by the head.] It's frightening. Turns the legs to jelly. I ask you, to what end? Dread it. Run from it. Destiny arrives all the same. And now, it's here. Or should I say... I AM.

[Thanos holds up his hand to reveal the Infinity Gauntlet, which already hosts the Power Stone.]

Thor: [exhaustedly spitting blood from his mouth] You talk too much.

Thanos: [to Loki] the Tesseract, or your brother's head. I assume you have a preference.

Loki: Oh, I do. Kill away!

[Thanos sets the gauntlet on Thor's face. The red ring glows brightly. Thor suffers in pain.]

Loki: [cringing and looking away from his brother's pain and having just thought for a few seconds] ALRIGHT, STOP!

Thor: We don't have the Tesseract. It was destroyed on Asgard.

[Loki glances at Thor like he knows something he doesn't. he lifts his right hand into the air and the Tesseract reveals itself]

Thor: You really are the worst, brother.

Loki: [While holding the Tesseract out to Thanos and advancing] I assure you, brother, the Sun will shine on us again.

Thanos: Your optimism is misplaced, Asgardian.

Loki: Well, for one thing: I'm not Asgardian. And for another... We have a Hulk.

[Loki dives out of the way as The Hulk emerges and fights Thanos. Punches are exchanged and Thanos is forced into the wall of the ship. Ebony Maw stops Cull Obsidian from interfering.]

Ebony Maw: Let him have his fun.

[Thanos defeats Hulk and dumps him to the ground. Thor tries to interfere but Ebony Maw binds him to the ground.]

Heimdall: Allfathers... let the dark magic flow through me one last... time.

[Heimdall summons the Bifrost, which carries the Hulk away.]

Thanos: That was a mistake.

[Thanos stabs Heimdall through the heart.]

Thor: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!! You're going to die for that!

[Ebony Maw shuts Thor's mouth]

Ebony Maw: Shhhh. [Holding the Tesseract, on one knee] My humble personage... bows before your grandeur. No other being has ever had the might, nay the nobility, to wield not one, but two Infinity Stones. The universe lies within your grasp.

[Thanos crushes the Tesseract, revealing the Space Stone. He places it on the infinity gauntlet.]

Thanos: There are two more Stones on Earth. Find them, my children, and bring them to me on Titan.

Corvus Glaive: Father, we will not fail you.

Loki: [Emerging from a separate section of the ship] If I might, interject... If you're going to Earth, you might want a guide. I do have a bit of experience in that arena.

Thanos: If you consider failure experience...

Loki: I consider experience, experience. Almighty Thanos. I, Loki, Heir to Asgard... Frost Giant... The rightful Soldier of Asgard, do hereby pledge to you, my undying fidelity.

[Ebony Maw squints and notices a dagger in Loki's hand. Loki attempts to stab Thanos, but fails.]

Thanos: “Undying.” You should choose your words more carefully.

[Thanos tightens his hold around Loki's neck. He makes eye contact with Thor before he increases his force on Loki's neck.]

Loki: [Giving up on fighting against Thanos] You... will never be... a god. [Thanos snaps Loki's neck, killing him]

Thanos: No resurrections this time.

[Thanos teleports away with the Black Order.]

Thor: No... Loki...

[Thor is released from his binds. He crawls over to Loki's body- which, unlike in the Dark World, has not returned to its Asgardian form - and lays his head down on Loki's chest, shedding tears for all that he has lost. The ship explodes. The Bifrost sends the Hulk across space to Earth.]

[Sanctum Sanctorum]

Dr. Strange: Seriously? You don't have any money?

Wong: Attachment to the material is detachment from the spiritual.

Dr. Strange: I'll tell the guys at the deli. Maybe they'll make you a metaphysical Ham on Rye.

Wong: Oh, wait, wait, wait, I think I have 200.

Dr. Strange: Dollars?

Wong: Rupees.

Dr. Strange: Which is

Wong: Uh, buck and a half.

Dr. Strange: What do you want?

Wong: I wouldn't say no to a Tuna Melt.

[Bruce crash-lands on the Sanctorum stairs.]

Bruce Banner: Thanos is coming. He's coming...

Dr. Strange: [Sharing a look with Wong, now in his normal fighting attire] ... Who?

(Title Screen: Avengers: Infinity War)

Tony Stark: Slow down, slow down. I'm totally not kidding.

Pepper Potts: [laughing slightly] You're totally rambling.

Tony Stark: No, I'm not.

Pepper Potts: Lost me.

Tony Stark: Look, you know how you're having a dream, and in the dream you gotta pee?

Pepper Potts: Yeah.

Tony Stark: Okay, and then you're like, “Oh my god, there's no bathroom, what am I gonna do?” “Oh! Someone's watching.” “I'm gonna go in my pants.”

Pepper Potts: Right. And then you wake up, and in real life you actually have to pee.

Tony Stark: Yes.

Pepper Potts: Yeah. Everybody has that.

Tony Stark: Right! That's the point I'm trying to make. Apropos of that, last night, I dreamt, we had a kid. So real. We named him after your eccentric uncle. Uh, what was his name?

Pepper Potts: [Nodding in understanding] Right.

Tony Stark: Morgan! Morgan.

Pepper Potts: So you woke up, and thought that we were...

Tony Stark: Expecting.

Pepper Potts: Yeah.

Tony Stark: [Becoming excited] Yes?

Pepper Potts: [Shaking her head} No.

Tony Stark: I had a dream about it. It was so real.

Pepper Potts: If you wanted to have a kid, you wouldn't have done that.

[Pepper points to Tony's chest attachment]

Tony Stark: I'm glad you brought this up, 'cause it's nothing. It's just a housing unit for nano particles.

Pepper Potts: It's not helping your case, OK?

Tony Stark: No, no, it's an attachment, it's not a-

Pepper Potts: {Insistently] You don't need that.

Tony Stark: I know. I had the surgery. I'm just trying to protect us. The future, us, and that's it. Just in case there's a monster in the closet, instead of, you know...

Pepper Potts: Shirts?

Tony Stark: You know me so well. You finish all my sentences.

Pepper Potts: You should have shirts in your closet.

Tony Stark: Yeah. You know what there should be? No more surprises. We're gonna have a nice dinner tonight. Show off this Harry Winston. Right? And we should have no more surprises. Ever. I should promise you.

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Tony Stark: I will. (Tony kisses Pepper.)

[Dr. Strange comes through a portal]

Dr. Strange: Tony Stark, I'm Doctor Stephen Strange. I need you to come with me. Oh, uh, congratulations on the wedding, by the way.

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, you giving out tickets or something?

Dr. Strange: We need your help. Look, it's not overselling to say that the fate of the universe is at stake.

Tony Stark: And who's “we”?

Bruce Banner: [Emerges behind Doctor Strange] Hey, Tony.

Tony Stark: [Looking surprised] Bruce.

Bruce Banner: Pepper.

Pepper Potts: Hi.

Tony Stark: You okay?

[Bruce gives Tony a hug, not answering. After everything he has been through, we understand.]

[Back at the Sanctum Sanctorum]

Wong: [Using magic to show the universe and five out of six Infinity Stones] From the dawn of the universe, there was nothing. Then, boom! The Big Bang sent six elemental crystals, hurdling across the virgin universe. These Infinity Stones each control an essential aspect of existence.

Doctor Strange: Space. Reality. Power. Soul. Mind. And Time.

[Dr. Strange opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone.]

Tony Stark: Tell me his name again.

Bruce Banner: Thanos. He's a plague, Tony. He invades planets, he takes what he wants, he wipes out half the population. He sent Loki! The attack on New York, that's him!

Tony Stark: [Speaking to himself] This is him...What's our timeline?

Bruce Banner: No telling. He has the Power and Space Stones, that already makes him the strongest creature in the whole universe! If he gets his hands, on all six Stones, Tony...

Doctor Strange: He can destroy life on a scale hither to undreamt of.

Tony Stark: [Leans against a cauldron, stretching casually] Did you seriously just say “hither to undreamt of”?

Doctor Strange: Are you seriously leaning on the Cauldron of the Cosmos?

Tony Stark: Is that what this is...?

[The Cloak of Levitation smacks Tony's arm.]

Tony Stark: [Looking offended] I'm going to allow that. If Thanos needs all six, why don't we just stick this one down the garbage disposal?

Doctor Strange: No can do.

Wong: We swore an oath to protect the Time Stone. With our lives.

Tony Stark: And I swore off dairy, but then, Ben & Jerry's named a flavor after me, so...

Doctor Strange: Stark Raving Hazelnuts.

Tony Stark: It's not bad.

Doctor Strange: A bit chalky.

Wong: “A Hunka-Hulka Burning Fudge” is our favorite.

Bruce Banner: That's a thing?

Tony Stark: Whatever. Point is: Things change.

Doctor Strange: Our oath to protect the Time Stone cannot change. This Stone may be the best chance we have against Thanos.

Tony Stark: And still conversely, it may also be his best chance against us.

Doctor Strange: Well, if we don't do our jobs.

Tony Stark: What is your job exactly, besides making balloon animals?

Doctor Strange: Protecting your reality, douchebag.

Bruce Banner: Okay, guys, can we table this discussion right now? The fact is that we have this Stone. We know where it is. Vision is out there somewhere with the Mind Stone, and we have to find him now.

Tony Stark: [awkwardly] Yeah, that's the thing.

Bruce Banner: What do you mean?

Tony Stark: Two weeks ago, Vision turned off his transponder. He's offline.

Bruce Banner: What?! Tony, you lost another super bot?!

Tony Stark: I didn't lose him. He's more than that. He's evolving.

Doctor Strange: Who could find Vision, then?

Tony Stark: Shit. Probably Steve Rogers.

Doctor Strange: [sighing in exasperation] Oh, great.

Tony Stark: Maybe. But...

Bruce Banner: [missing the events of Civil War] Call him.

Tony Stark: It's not that easy. God, we haven't caught up in a spell, have we?

Bruce Banner: No.

Tony Stark: The Avengers broke up. We're toast.

Bruce Banner: Broke up? Like a band? Like The Beatles?

Tony Stark: Cap and I fell out hard. We're not on speaking terms.

Bruce Banner: Tony, listen to me. Thor's gone. Thanos is coming. It doesn't matter who you're talking to or not.

[Tony hesitates, before pulling out the cellular phone Steve mailed him, muttering ‘flip phone'. It seems as though he brings it everywhere, always ready to call his lost friend. Before clicking “Call”, he pauses. He hears unusual sounds.]

Tony Stark: Say, Doc, you wouldn't happen to be moving your hair, would you?

Doctor Strange: [Trying to look up at one of his stray hairs fluttering] ... Not at the moment, no.

[Tony looks at the opening on the ceiling and sees metal scraps flying by outside. He exits the Sanctum and scans the chaotic surroundings. He helps a woman up.]

Tony Stark: You okay?

[The woman ignores him and runs away. A car crashes in on a pole behind Tony.]

Tony Stark: Help him! Wong, Doc.

Bruce Banner: Go! Got it!

Tony Stark: [Putting on his sunglasses] F.R.I.D.A.Y., what am I looking at?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Not sure, I'm working on it.

Tony Stark: Hey! You might wanna put that Time Stone in your back pocket, Doc!

Doctor Strange: Might wanna use it.

[A huge circular ship is seen floating near Bleecker Street. On a bus, the hairs on Peter Parker's arms stand up. He looks out the window and sees the ship.]

Peter Parker: [Tapping his friend from the seat in front of him] Ned, hey. I need you to cause a distraction.

Ned Leeds: Holy shit! We're all gonna die! There's a spaceship!

[Peter Parker opens a window using his web shooter. He exits the bus. Students scramble to the windows to see the spaceship.]

Stan Lee: What's the matter with you kids? You've never seen a spaceship before?

[Peter Parker wears his Spider-Man mask and makes his way towards the ship.]

Tony Stark: F.R.I.D.A.Y., evac anyone south of 43rd Street, notify first responders.

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Will do.

[Doctor Strange stops the ship's engine. The dust clears. Ebony Maw and Cull Obsidian exit the ship.]

Ebony Maw: Hear me, and rejoice. You are about to die at the hands of the Children of Thanos. Be thankful, that your meaningless lives are now contributing to...

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, Earth is closed today. You better pack it up and get outta here.

Ebony Maw: [Looks at Strange] Stone keeper... Does this chattering animal speak for you?

Doctor Strange: Certainly not. I speak for myself. But you're trespassing in this city and on this planet.

Tony Stark: It means get lost Squidward!

Ebony Maw: He exhausts me. Bring me the Stone.

Tony Stark: Banner, you want a piece?

Bruce Banner: No, not really, but when do I ever get what I want?

Tony Stark: That's right.

[Bruce attempts to release the Hulk. Instead of Hulk coming out easily, the most that turns green is Bruce's neck]

Tony Stark: Been a while. Good to have you, buddy.

Bruce Banner: I just... I need to concentrate here for one second. Come on, come on, man.

Tony Stark: Where's your guy?

Bruce Banner: I don't know. We've sort been havin' a thing.

Tony Stark: There's no time for a thing.

Bruce Banner: I know.

Tony Stark: That's the thing right there. Let's go.

[Bruce gives out a loud grunt, but fails to release the Hulk.]

Tony Stark: {Glances at Strange] Dude, you're embarrassing me in front of the wizards.

Bruce Banner: Tony, I'm sorry. (STAMMERS) Either I can't or he won't-

Tony Stark: It's okay. Hey, stand down. [to Wong] Keep an eye on him. Thank you.

Wong: I have him.

Bruce Banner: Damn it.

[As Ebony Maw approaches the team, Stark dons his Iron Man suit. He defends himself and casts the Dwarf back to Maw, who dodges him.]

Bruce Banner: Where'd that come from?

Tony Stark: It's nano-tech. You like it? A little somet-

[Ebony Maw hurls Stark up and attacks the rest of the team. Wong summons a shield.]

Doctor Strange: Dr. Banner, if the rest of your green friend won't be joining us...

[Doctor Strange teleports Banner to the park. Stark returns and joins the fight.]

Tony Stark: Gotta get that stone outta here, now.

Doctor Strange: It stays with me.

Tony Stark: Exactly. Bye.

[Tony flies away but is cut off by Ebony Maw, sending him to the park.]

Bruce Banner: Tony, you okay? How we doing? Good? bad?

Tony Stark: Really, really good. Really good. Do you plan on helping out?

Bruce Banner: I'm trying. He won't come out.

[Cull Obsidian arrives to the park. Throwing his hammer at Bruce.]

Tony Stark: Hammer. [Pushing Bruce out of the way]

[Tony's energy beam deflects off Ebony Maw's shield, slicing down trees. Bruce crawls under a fallen tree.]

Bruce Banner: [begins hitting himself]Come on, Hulk. What are you doing to me? Come out! Come out! Come out!

Hulk: No!

Bruce Banner: What do you mean, “no”?

[Stark is knocked down by Dwarf, but is shielded by Peter Parker.]

Peter Parker: Hey, man. What's up, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: Kid, where'd you come from?

Peter Parker: Field trip to MoMA.

[Cull Obsidian grabs Parker and throws him away.]

Peter Parker: What is this guy's problem, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: He's from space. He came here to steal a necklace from a wizard.

[Wong and Doctor Strange are fighting against Maw. Maw lifts several bricks from the ground and turns them into sharp points. He sends them towards Wong and Strange. The two make portals and send them back towards Maw. Maw moves a car to protect himself, but one spike still hits his head, creating a cut. Wong is knocked back into rubble and a car, falling to the ground unconscious. Strange flies forward to fight Maw but is knocked back into a building, bricks trapping him]

Ebony Maw: Your powers are quaint. You must be popular with children.

[Maw tries to grab the amulet holding the Time Stone but jerks back when it burns his hand.]

Doctor Strange: It's a simple spell but quite unbreakable.

Ebony Maw: Then I'll take it off your corpse.

[Maw pulls Strange away from the building and throws him to the ground. Several wires leap around around different parts of Strange's body. One cord, is slowly tightening around his neck]

Doctor Strange: You'll find...removing a dead man's spell... Troublesome.

Ebony Maw: You'll only wish you were dead. [Strange falls unconscious and is Maw moves to grab him. The Cloak of Levitation flies Strange away} No!

Tony Stark: [As Strange passes through the park] Kid, that's the wizard. Get on it.

Peter Parker: On it!

(Peter chases Strange through Manhattan, Maw attacks him, throwing him through a billboard.)

Peter Parker: Not cool!

(Peter attempts to anchor Strange to a lamppost, but Maw breaks the lamppost, sending Peter and Strange up in the ship's tractor beam.)

Peter Parker: Mr. Stark? I'm being beamed up.

Tony Stark: Hang on, kid. [As Cull Obsidian jumps towards Tony he is sent through a portal. Tony turns towards Wong, the one who made the portal} Wong, you're invited to my wedding. [Tony begins to fly towards the large ship] Give me a little juice, F.R.I.D.A.Y. [Tony's feet thrusters turn morph together into a larger one] Unlock 17-A. [a pod jettisons from the New Avengers Facility] Pete, you gotta let go. I'm gonna catch you.

Peter Parker: But you said save the wizard! [Peter, based on lack of oxygen, pulls off his mask] I can't breathe!

Tony Stark: You're too high up. You're running out of air.

Peter Parker: Yeah! That makes sense.

[Peter passes out, free-falling, but not before the pod reaches him. It attaches itself to him, becoming the Iron Spider suit. Now being able to breathe, Peter lands on a bottom part of the ship, standing up heroically.]

Peter Parker: Mr. Stark, it smells like a new car in here!

Tony Stark: Happy trails, kid. F.R.I.D.A.Y, send him home.

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Yup.

[A large parachute extends from the new suit, sending Peter spiraling back to Earth.]

Peter Parker: Oh, come on!

[Tony boards the ship, trying to get to the main bay and keep the Time Stone out of MAW's hands.]

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, incoming call from Miss Potts.

Pepper Potts: Tony? Oh, my God. Are you all right? What's going on?

Tony Stark: Yeah, I'm fine. I just think we might have to push our 8:30 res.

Pepper Potts: Why?

Tony Stark: [While looking at the ship around him] Just 'cause I'll... probably not make it back for awhile.

Pepper Potts: Tell me you're not on that ship.

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Pepper Potts: God, no. Please tell me you're not on that ship.

Tony Stark: Honey, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I don't know what to say.

Pepper Potts: Come back here, Tony. I swear to God...

Tony Stark: Pep...

Pepper Potts: Come back here right now! Come back!

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, we're losing her. I'm going, too...

[Peter Parker is revealed to have managed to stick to the outside of the ship, and is crawling inside an airlock.]

Peter Parker: Oh my God. I should have stayed on the bus.

(Meanwhile, on EARTH)

Bruce Banner: Where you going?

Wong: The Time Stone's been taken. The Sanctum remains unguarded. What will you do?

Bruce Banner: [Holding Rogers' cell phone] I'm gonna make a call.

[Wong nods in understanding and closes the portal, not to be seen again for the rest of the movie]

(SPACE: Guardians of the Galaxy)

[The Guardians of the Galaxy are traveling to investigate a distress call to the tune of ‘Rubberband Man'.]

Peter Quill: (While dancing to the song) Sing it, Drax!

(Drax is snoring with his mouth open from his seat in front of Quill.)

Rocket: (After yawning briefly) Why are we doing this again?

Gamora: (In annoyance) It's a distress signal, Rocket. Someone could be dying.

Rocket: I get that, but why are we doing it?

Peter Quill: ‘Cause we're nice. And maybe whoever it is will give us a little cheddar cheese for our help.

Gamora: Which isn't the point.

Peter Quill: (Points at Gamora) Which isn't the point... I mean... If he doesn't pony up...

Rocket: We'll take his ship.

Peter Quill: B-b-b-bingo!

Mantis: (Adjusting a few things on the ship) We are arriving.

Peter Quill: All right, Guardians. Don't forget, this might be dangerous, so let's put on our mean faces. (Looks back at Groot is playing a video game) Groot, put that thing away. Now. I don't wanna tell you again. Groot.

Groot: (Now a teenager and playing a handheld gaming device) [in a mocking tone] I am Groot!

Peter Quill: Whoa!

Rocket: Language!

Gamora: Hey!

Drax: Wow.

Peter Quill: You got some acorns on you, kid.

Rocket: Ever since you got your little sap, you're a total d-hole. Keep it up, and I'm gonna smash that thing to pieces!

(Groot rolls his eyes. As Rocket finishes what he is saying Thanos' carnage is revealed, revealing the distress signal to be the one from the Asgardian vessel at the beginning of the movie. The Guardians find the Asgardians floating dead in space from the destruction by Thanos.)

Mantis: What happened?

Rocket: Looks like we're not getting paid.

(With a thump, Thor's body is plastered to the hull of the ship.)

Rocket: (Waving his hands) Wipers! Wipers! Get it off.

(THOR's eye opens- cut to the GUARDIANS tending to the still unconscious Thor inside the ship)

Peter Quill: How the hell is this dude still alive?

Drax: He is not a dude. You're a dude. This... This is a man. A handsome, muscular man.

Peter Quill: I'm muscular.

Rocket: Who are you kidding, Quill? You're one sandwich away from fat.

Peter Quill: Yeah, right.

Drax: It's true. You have gained a little weight... (Drax motions to his chin and belly)

Peter Quill: What? Gamora, do you think I'm...

Mantis: He is anxious. Angry. He feels tremendous loss and guilt.

Drax: It's like a pirate had a baby with an angel.

Peter Quill: Wow. This is a real wake-up call for me. Okay. I'm gonna get a Bowflex. I'm gonna commit. I'm gonna get some dumbbells.

Rocket: You know you can't eat dumbbells, right?

Gamora: It's like his muscles are made of Cotati metal fibers.

Peter Quill: Stop massaging his muscles. Wake him up.

Mantis: Wake.

(Thor awakens, frightening Mantis. He does not recognize them.)

Thor: Who the hell are you guys?

[Cut to later as the Guardians stand around Thor eating soup]

Gamora: The entire time I knew Thanos, he only ever had one goal: To bring balance to the Universe by wiping out half of all life. He used to kill people planet by planet, massacre by massacre...

Drax: Including my own.

Gamora: If he gets all six Infinity Stones, he can do it with the snap of his fingers, like this. (she snaps her fingers)

Thor: You seem to know a great deal about Thanos.

Drax: Gamora... is the daughter of Thanos.

Thor: Your father killed my brother.

Peter Quill: Oh, boy. Stepfather. Technically, she hates him as much as you do. (Thor softens a bit.)

Thor: Families can be tough. Look. Before my father died, he told me I had a half-sister...that he imprisoned in Hel. Then she returned home, and stabbed me in the eye, so... I had to kill her. It's life, isn't it, I guess. Goes round and round and... I feel your pain.

Peter Quill: And I feel your pain, as well. I mean it's not a competition, but I've been through a lot. My father killed my mother, then I had to kill my father. And that was hard. Probably even harder than having to kill a sister. Plus, I, came out of it with both of my eyes-”

Thor: I need a hammer, not a spoon... (he attempts to fiddle with machinery) How do I open this thing? Is there some sort of a four-digit code maybe... Maybe a birth date or something...

Peter Quill: What are you doing?

Thor: Taking your pod.

Peter Quill: No, you're not! (mimics THOR's accent) You'll not, be taking our pod today, sir.

Rocket: Quill. Are you making your voice deeper?

Peter Quill: No.

Drax: You are. You're imitating the god-man. It's weird.

Peter Quill: No I'm not.

Mantis: He just did it again!

Peter Quill: This is my voice!

Thor: (Thor stepping closer to Quill) Are you mocking me?

Peter Quill: Are you mocking me?

Thor: Stop it. You did it again.

Peter Quill: He's trying to copy me.

Thor: Would you stop doing that? He's doing it first.

Gamora: Enough! We need to stop Thanos. Which means we need to find out where he's going next.

Thor: Knowhere.

Mantis: He must be going somewhere.

Peter Quill: No. Knowhere? It's a place. We've been there. It sucks. Excuse me, that's our food. (To Thor as he rummages through their food stores)

Thor: Not anymore.

Gamora: Thor... Why would he go to Knowhere?

Thor: Because for years, the Reality Stone has been safely stored, there with a man we call the Collector.

Peter Quill: If it's with the Collector, then it's not safe. Only an idiot would give that man a stone.

Thor: Or a genius.

Gamora: (To Thor) How do you know he's not going for one of the other Stones?

Thor: There's six stones out there. Thanos already has the Power Stone because he stole it last week, when he decimated Xandar. He stole the Space Stone from me when he destroyed my ship and slaughtered half my people. The Time and Mind Stones are safe on Earth. They're with the Avengers.

Peter Quill: The Avengers?

Thor: They're Earth's Mightiest Heroes.

Mantis: Like Kevin Bacon?

Thor: ...He may be on the team. I don't know. Haven't been there in a while. As for the Soul Stone, well, no one's ever seen that. No one even knows where it is. Therefore, Thanos can't get it. Therefore, he's going to Knowhere. Hence, he'll be getting the Reality Stone. You're welcome.

Gamora: Then we have to go to Knowhere now.

Thor: Wrong. Where we have to go, is Nidavellir.

Drax: That's a made up word.

Thor: All words are made up.

Rocket: Nidavellir is real? (Climbing on to the table) Seriously? I mean, that place is a legend. They make the most powerful, horrific weapons to ever torment the Universe. I would very much like to go there, please.

Thor: The rabbit is correct, and clearly the smartest among you.

Rocket: Rabbit?

Thor: Only Eitri the dwarf king can make me the weapon I need. (To ROCKET) I assume you're the captain, sir?

Rocket: You're very perceptive.

Thor: You seem like a noble leader. Will you join me on my quest to Nidavellir?

Rocket: Lemme just ask the captain. Wait a second, it's me! Yeah, I'll go.

Thor: Wonderful.

Peter Quill: Except that I'm the captain.

Rocket: Quiet!

Peter Quill: And that's my backpack.

Rocket: Quill, sit down.

Peter Quill: (To Thor) Look, this is my ship. And I'm not going to... Wait, what kind of weapon are we talking about here?

Thor: The Thanos killing kind.

Peter Quill: Don't you think that we should all have a weapon like that?

Thor: No. You simply lack the strength to wield them. Your bodies will crumble as your minds collapse into the madness.

Rocket: Is it weird that I wanna do it even more now?

Thor: A little bit. Yeah.

Gamora: If we don't go to Knowhere and Thanos retrieves another stone, he'll be too powerful to stop.

Thor: He already is.

Rocket: I got it figured out. We got two ships, and a large assortment of morons. So me and Groot will go with the pirate-angel here, and the morons will go to Knowhere to try and stop Thanos. Cool? Cool.

Thor: So cool.

Peter Quill: (To Rocket) For the record... I know that you're only going with him because it's where Thanos isn't.

Rocket: You know, Quill, you shouldn't talk that way to your captain. (As he enters the pod) Come on, Groot. Put that game down. You'll rot your brain.

Thor: I bid you farewell and good luck, morons. Bye.

[Cut to Scotland, where VISION and WANDA MAXIMOFF share an apartment. Wanda is in bed while VISION, in a human glamour, watches out a window.]

Vision: (Holding his hand to the Mind Stone in pain)

Wanda Maximoff: Vis? Is it the stone again?

Vision: It's as if it's speaking to me.

Wanda Maximoff: What does it say?

Vision: I don't... I don't know. But something... Tell me what you feel.

(Wanda presses her hand to the MIND STONE. She seems confused.)

Wanda Maximoff: I just feel you.

(VISION takes Wanda's hand and kisses it. Then they kiss. Cut to later, where the two are going on a stroll.)

Wanda Maximoff: So there's a 10 AM to Glasgow to give us more time together before you went back.

Vision: What if I miss that train?

Wanda Maximoff: There is an 11.

Vision: What if I missed all the trains? What if this time, I didn't go back?

Wanda Maximoff: You gave Stark your word.

Vision: I'd rather give it to you.

Wanda Maximoff: There are people who are expecting me too, you know. We both made promises.

Vision: Not to each other. Wanda... For two years, we've stolen these moments, trying to see if this could work. And... I don't know. You know what, I'm just gonna speak for myself. – I, I... I think...

Wanda Maximoff: It works.

Vision: It works.

Vision: Then stay. Stay with me. (a pause) Or not. If I'm overstepping...

(Suddenly, Wanda MAXIMOFF notices the TV in a nearby bar announcing the invasion of New York, and the disappearance of TONY STARK.)

Wanda Maximoff: What are they?

Vision: What the stone was warning me about. I have to go.

Wanda Maximoff: No. Vision. If that's true... Then maybe going isn't the best idea.

Vision: Wanda, I... (CORVUS GLAIVE appears suddenly behind vision, stabbing him through the back.)

Wanda Maximoff: Vision!

(PROXIMA MIDNIGHT attacks Wanda from behind, and knocks her away. CORVUS GLAIVE pins Vision down using his weapon {a glaive} in an attempt to extract the mind stone from Vision's head. Wanda blasts both of them away, then propels Vision and herself into a nearby courtyard where they rest in an alleyway.)

Vision: The blade. It stopped me from phasing.

Wanda Maximoff: Is that even possible?

Vision: It isn't supposed to be. My systems are failing. I'm beginning to think... we should have stayed in bed.

(CORVUS GLAIVE suddenly arrives, knocking Wanda aside and grabbing Vision)

Wanda Maximoff: Vis!

(CORVUS flies away with Vision, pinning him against a wall. Meanwhile, PROXIMA engages Wanda and they begin to fight.)

Corvus Glaive: (to VISION) Give up the Stone, and she lives.

(Vision flies with CORVUS to the roof of what appears to be a church. PROXIMA and Wanda are still fighting below. Vision shoots a beam from the mind stone at CORVUS, who uses his glaive to deflect it back at Vision, causing him to slam into the wall behind him.)

(Down below, Wanda hears a cry from Vision. Finally knocking PROXIMA away with her magic, Wanda then flies up to the roof where GLAIVE has pinned Vision and is again attempting to remove the mind stone. She casts a bolt of magic which throws him back through the wall and down a shaft.)

Wanda Maximoff: Hands off.

(Wanda then uses her magic to propel her and Vision away. Below, PROXIMA, who has recovered, shoots a bolt from her weapon, causing them to fall from the air and down through the roof of a train station beneath them. Wanda crawls over to Vision.)

Wanda Maximoff: Come on. Come on. Come on, you gotta get up. You gotta get up. Come on. Hey. Hey. We have to go.

Vision: Please. Please leave.

Wanda Maximoff: You asked me to stay... I'm staying.

Vision: Please.

Wanda Maximoff: Get up.

(Behind them, PROXIMA MIDNIGHT and CORVUS GLAIVE land and advance on Wanda who stands in front of Vision. A train passes behind Wanda , and they all pause as if aware of another's presence. As the last train car passes, we see a silhouette against the back wall. PROXIMA throws her weapon, but it is quickly caught just before the figure steps from the shadows.)

(We now recognize a bearded Captain America as he steps into the light. While they are distracted, Falcon {Sam Wilson} swoops in and kicks PROXIMA MIDNIGHT to the next room. Swooping around, he fires on CORVUS GLAIVE. At the same time, Captain America throws PROXIMA'S weapon to Black Widow who engages CORVUS, stabbing him in the gut and flinging him backwards. PROXIMA, who has now recovered, summons her weapon back to her hand and attacks Captain America and Black Widow simultaneously. While the three are fighting, Falcon flies in and again kicks PROXIMA backwards where she crouches down beside CORVUS.)

Proxima Midnight: (To GLAIVE) Get up.

Corvus Glaive: I can't.

Natasha Romanoff: We don't wanna kill you. But we will.

Proxima Midnight: You'll never get the chance again.

(PROXIMA MIDNIGHT and CORVUS GLAIVE depart as they are beamed up.)

Sam Wilson: (To Vision) Can you stand?

Vision: Thank you, Captain.

Steve Rogers: Let's get you on the jet.

Natasha Romanoff: (Closing the doors to the Quinjet, while addressing Wanda) I thought we had a deal. Stay close, check in. Don't take any chances.

Wanda Maximoff: I'm sorry. We just wanted time.

Sam Wilson: Where to, Cap?

Steve Rogers: Home.

[Cut to the past, at GAMORA'S home planet during THANOS' massacre. YOUNG GAMORA is separated from her mother.]

Gamora's Mother: (To Young Gamora) Shhh. We'll be safe. We'll be safe.

(Gamora screeches and a Child of Thanos finds them and separates them)

Ebony Maw: Zehobereans...

Young Gamora: (As she is dragged away) Mother!

Ebony Maw: Choose a side, or die.

Young Gamora: Mother! (She pulls away from the one who is dragging her and punches him as he leaves)

Ebony Maw: One side, for reservation. The other, an honor...

(YOUNG GAMORA approaches THANOS, desperate to find her mother.)

Thanos: What's wrong, little one?

Young Gamora: My mother. Where is my mother?

Thanos: (Kneels down to Gamora) What's your name?

Young Gamora: Gamora.

Thanos: You're quite the fighter, Gamora. Come. Let me help you. (THANOS takes her hand and leads her to a pavilion, where he produces a small red-jeweled dagger) Look. Pretty, isn't it? Perfectly balanced. As all things should be. Too much to one side, or the other... Here. You try.

Ebony Maw: Now go in peace, and meet your Maker.

(One half of the crowd is shot down. They scream, and YOUNG GAMORA turns, but THANOS prevents her from seeing the massacre.)

Thanos: Concentrate. There! You've got it.

[Cut to the present, aboard the GUARDIANS' ship.]

Peter Quill: Gamora. Do you know if these grenades are the “blow off your junk” kind or the gas kind? ‘Cause I was thinking I might hang a couple on my belt right here. But I don't want to-

Gamora: I need to ask a favor.

Peter Quill: Yeah, sure.

Gamora: One way or another, the path that we're on leads to Thanos.

Peter Quill: Which is what the grenades are for. (GAMORA silences him with a look.) I'm sorry. What's the favor?

Gamora: If things go wrong... If Thanos gets me... I want you to promise me... you'll kill me.

Peter Quill: (A beat. Confusion.): What?

Gamora: I know something he doesn't. If he finds out... The entire Universe could be at risk.

Peter Quill: What do you know?

Gamora: If I tell you, you'd know, too.

Peter Quill: If it's so important, shouldn't I?

Gamora: Only if you wanna die.

Peter Quill: Why does somebody always have to die in this scenario?

Gamora: Just... trust me. And possibly, kill me.

Peter Quill: I mean, I'd like to. I really would...(GAMORA silences him by covering his mouth with her hand)

Gamora: Swear to me. Swear to me on your mother.

Peter Quill: (beat) Okay.

(The two kiss, until an odd crunching sound startles them. DRAX is standing in the corner.)

Peter Quill: Dude! How long have you been standing there?

Drax: An hour.

Peter Quill: An hour? Are you serious?

Drax: I've mastered the ability, of standing so incredibly still... That I've become invisible to the eye. Watch.

(DRAX stands motionless- until he eats more of his snack.)

Peter Quill: You're eating a zark nut

Drax: But my movement... So slow... And it's imperceptible.

Peter Quill: No.(Peter and Gamora shake their head)

Drax: I'm sure I'm invisible.

Mantis: Hi, Drax.

Drax: Damn it.

(The group lands in KNOWHERE, in search of THANOS)

DRAX: I'm reading movement. From the third quadrant.

PETER QUILL: Yep. I'm picking that up, too.

QUILL: Let's put it down right here.

(The group enters the COLLECTOR's collection room, which is in ruin. THANOS is threatening the COLLECTOR while the GUARDIANS hide behind the rubble.)

THANOS: Everyone in the Galaxy knows you'd sell your own brother if you thought it would add the slightest trinket to your pathetic collection. I know you have the Reality Stone. Giving it to me will spare you a great deal of suffering.

COLLECTOR: I told you. I sold it. Why would I lie?

THANOS: I imagine it's like breathing for you.

COLLECTOR: Like suicide.

THANOS: So you do understand. Not even you would surrender something so precious.

COLLECTOR: I didn't know what it was.

THANOS: Then you're more of a fool than I took you for. Last chance, Tivan. Where's the Stone?

DRAX: Today...

Peter Quill: Drax. Drax.

Drax: ...he pays for the deaths of my wife and daughter.

QUILL: Drax, wait! not yet, not yet, not yet. He doesn't have the Stone yet. We get it, and then we can stop him. We have to get the Stone first. Yeah.

DRAX: No. No. For Ovette. For Camaria.

MANTIS: Sleep. (DRAX is knocked out, causing a ruckus.)

QUILL: Okay. Gamora, Mantis, you go right. I'm... (GAMORA moves towards THANOS.) The other right!

(GAMORA attacks THANOS, stabbing him twice, seemingly killing him.)

THANOS: Why? Why you? Daughter... (he falls down, holding his hand out to her, blood pooling out from his neck wound. GAMORA breaks down in tears.)

QUILL: That was quick.

COLLECTOR: Magnificent! Magnificent! Magnificent!

(Suddenly, THANOS' disembodied voice fills the room, and the scene disappears- everything is leveled, and THANOS is more than alive. He has the REALITY STONE in the INFINITY GAUNTLET.)

THANOS: Is it sadness I sense in you, daughter? In my heart, I knew you still cared. But one ever knows for sure. Reality is often disappointing. That is, it was. Now... Reality can be whatever I want.

GAMORA: You knew I'd come.

THANOS: I counted on it. There's something we need to discuss, little one.

DRAX: Thanos!

(With a flick of his hand, both DRAX and MANTIS are ‘destroyed' in rather comical ways. THANOS grabs GAMORA.)

QUILL: Let her go, Grimace!

GAMORA: Peter...

QUILL: I told you to go right.

GAMORA: Now? Really?

QUILL: You let her go!

THANOS: Ah, the boyfriend.

QUILL: I like to think of myself more as a Titan-killing long term booty call. Let her go.

GAMORA: Peter...

QUILL: Or I'm gonna blow that nut-sack of a chin right off your face!

GAMORA: Not him.

(PETER hesitates. He does not shoot.)

GAMORA: You promised! You promised.

THANOS: Oh, daughter. You expect too much from him. (To PETER) She's asked, hasn't she? Do it. (he shoves GAMORA towards PETER's gun, egging him on.) Do it!

QUILL: I told you to go right.

(PETER begins to tear up.)

GAMORA: I love you, more than anything.

QUILL: I love you, too.

(PETER pulls the trigger- but a stream of bubbles comes out. THANOS was playing him.)

THANOS: I like you.

(THANOS teleports he and GAMORA away as a stunned PETER watches as his friends recover from their ‘deaths'.)

(Back on EARTH, COL. RHODES deals with the red tape.)

ROSS: Still no word from Vision?

RHODES: Satellites lost him somewhere over Edinburgh.

ROSS: On a stolen quinjet with four of the world's most wanted criminals.

RHODES: You know they're only criminals because you've chosen to call them that, right, sir?

ROSS: My God, Rhodes, your talent for horseshit rivals my own.

RHODES: If it weren't for those Accords, Vision would've been right here.

ROSS: I remember your signature on those papers, Colonel.

RHODES: That's right. And I'm pretty sure I've paid for that.

ROSS: You have second thoughts?

RHODES: Not anymore.

ROGERS: Mr. Secretary.

ROSS: You got some nerve. I'll give you that.

NATASHA: You could use some of that right now.

ROSS: The world's on fire. And you think, all is forgiven?

ROGERS: I'm not looking for forgiveness. And I'm way past asking for permission. Earth just lost her best defender. So we're here to fight. And if you wanna stand in our way... We'll fight you, too.

ROSS (To RHODES): Arrest them.

RHODES: All over it. (Turns off hologram) That's a court-martial. It's great to see you, Cap.

ROGERS: You too, Rhodey.

RHODES: Well. You guys, really look like crap. Must've been a rough couple of years.

SAM: Yeah, well, the hotels weren't exactly five star.

BRUCE: Uh, I think you look great. Yeah. I'm back.

NATASHA: Hi, Bruce.

BRUCE: Nat.

SAM WILSON: This is awkward.

(Cuts to a shot of Natasha, Bruce, Steve, Rhodey, Wanda, and Vision in another room.)

BRUCE: So we gotta assume they're coming back, right? And they can clearly find us. We need all hands on deck. Where's Clint?

NATASHA: After the whole Accords situation, he and Scott took a deal. It was too tough on their families.

BRUCE: Who's Scott?

ROGERS: Ant-Man.

BRUCE: There's an Ant-Man and a Spider-Man? Okay, look... Thanos has the biggest army in the Universe. And he is not gonna stop until he... He gets...Vision's stone.

Natasha: Well then, we have to protect it.

VISION: No, we have to destroy it. I've been giving a good deal of thought to this entity in my head, about its nature. But also, its composition. I think if it were exposed to a sufficiently powerful energy source, something, very similar to its own signature, perhaps... Its molecular integrity could fail. (VISION addresses WANDA as he nears her)

WANDA: And you, with it. We're not having this conversation.

VISION: Eliminating the stone is the only way to be certain that Thanos can't get it.

WANDA: That's too high a price.

VISION: Only you, have the power to pay it. Thanos threatens half the Universe. One life cannot stand in the way of defeating him.

ROGERS: But it should. We don't trade lives, Vision.

VISION: (While walking toward Steve) Captain, 70 years ago, you laid down your life to save how many millions of people. Tell me, why is this any different?

(Steve takes a breath, but before he has a chance to answer Bruce begins to speak)

BRUCE: Because you might have a choice. Your mind is made up of a complex construct of overlays. Jarvis, Ultron, Tony, me, the Stone. All of them mixed together. All of them learning from one another.

WANDA: You're saying Vision isn't just the stone?

BRUCE: I'm saying that... If we take out the stone, there's still a whole lot of Vision left. Perhaps the best parts.

NATASHA: Can we do that?

BRUCE: Not me. Not here.

RHODEY: You better find someone, and somewhere fast. Ross isn't exactly just gonna let you guys have your old rooms back.

ROGERS: (pause) I know somewhere.

(Cuts to Wakanda, as T'Challa and Okoye walk together, accompanied by two Wakandan soldiers)

Okoye: You'll have the King's Guard, and the Dora Milaje have been alerted.

T'Challa: And the border tribe?

Okoye: Those that are left.

T'Challa: Send word to the Jabari as well. M'Baku likes a good fight.

Okoye: And what of this one?

T'Challa: This one may be tired of war. but the White Wolf has rested long enough.

(The Wakandan soldiers present the White Wolf with a new adamantium arm)

BUCKY: Where's the fight?

T'CHALLA: On it's way.

[Cut to Ebony Maw interrogating Doctor Strange]

Ebony Maw: In all the time I've served Thanos, I've never failed him. If I were to reach our rendezvous on Titan with the Time Stone still attached to your vaguely irritating person, there would be...judgement. Give me... the stone.

(Cut to Tony who is watching, hidden, from above. Strange's cloak taps Stark on the arm. He raises his hand to it, ready to shoot, but he sees what it is and stands down.)

TONY: Wow you're a seriously loyal piece of outerwear, aren't you?

Peter Parker: Yeah, uh, speaking of loyalty...

Tony: What the-

Peter Parker: I know what you're gonna say.

Tony: You should not be here.

Peter Parker: I was gonna go home-

Tony: I don't wanna hear it.

Peter Parker: But it was such a long way down and I just thought about you on the way-

Tony: And now I gotta hear it.

Peter Parker: ...And I kinda stuck to the side of the ship. And this suit is ridiculously intuitive, by the way. So if anything, it's kinda your fault that I'm here.

Tony: (seriously) What did you just say?

Peter Parker: I take that back. And now I'm here in space.

Tony: Yeah. Right where I don't want you to be. This isn't Coney Island. This isn't a field trip. It's one-way ticket. You hear me? Don't pretend like you thought this through. You could not have possibly thought this through.

Peter Parker: No. I did think this through.

Tony: You could not have possibly thought this through.

Peter Parker: It's just- You can't be a friendly neighborhood Spider – Man when there's no neighborhood. (Pause) Okay. That didn't really make any sense, but you know what I'm trying to say.

Tony: Come on. We got a situation. See him down there? He's in trouble. What's your plan? Go.

Peter Parker: Um. Okay. Okay...uh...did you ever see that really old movie, Aliens?

(Cut back to Ebony Maw interrogating Strange.)

EBONY MAW: Painful aren't they? They were originally designed for microsurgery. And any one of them...

(he turns to see Stark in his Iron Man suit standing there.)

EBONY MAW: ...could end your friend's life in an instant.

Tony: I gotta tell you, he's not really my friend. Saving his life is more a professional courtesy.

EBONY MAW: You've saved nothing. Your powers are inconsequential compared to mine.

Tony: Yeah, but the kid's seen more movies.

(Tony fires a rocket from his shoulder which pierces the side of the ship and begins to suck everything out. Strange begins to be sucked out, but his cape wraps around his arm. Unfortunately, his arm slips from it and he keeps going. Spider-Man shoots a web strand at Strange with one hand and holds onto a piece of the ship with the other. It breaks, sending them both towards space when his Iron-Spider suit's metal arms brace him to keep him from being sucked out.)

Peter Parker: Yes! Wait what are those!

(He then pulls them back inside just as Tony sprays nanites onto the hole to plug it up. Peter and Strange safely hit the floor. Ebony Maw is seen floating in space, quite dead. Peter stands and tries to shake Strange's cape's “hand”.)

Peter Parker: Hey, we haven't officially met. (it ignores him and goes to Strange.) Cool.

Strange: We've gotta turn this ship around.

Tony: Yeah. Now he wants to run. Great plan.

Strange: No, I want to protect the stone.

Tony: And I want you to thank me. Go ahead. I'm listening.

Strange: For what? Nearly blasting me into space?

Tony: Who just saved your magical ass? Me.

Strange: I seriously don't know how you fit your head into that helmet.

Tony: Admit it. You should have ducked out when I told you to. I tried to bench you. You refused.

Strange: Unlike everyone else in your life, I don't work for you.

Tony: And due to that fact, we're now in a flying doughnut billions of miles away from Earth with no backup.

Peter Parker: I'm backup.

Tony: No. You're a stowaway. The adults are talking.

Strange: I'm sorry, I'm confused as to the relationship here. What is he, your ward?

Peter Parker: No. I'm peter, by the way.

Strange: Doctor Strange.

Peter Parker: Oh we're using our made-up names. Um...I'm Spider-Man, then.

Tony: This ship is self-correcting its course. Thing's on autopilot.

Strange: Can we control it? Fly us home? (Tony doesn't make eye contact.) Stark?

Tony: Yeah.

Strange: Can you get us home?

Tony: Yeah I heard you. I'm thinking...I'm not so sure we should.

Strange: Under no circumstance can we bring the Time Stone to Thanos. I don't think you quite understand what's at stake here.

Tony: No. It's you who doesn't understand. Thanos has been inside my head for six years...Since he sent an army to New York and now he's back! And I don't know what to do. So I'm not so sure if it's a better plan to fight him on out turf or his but you saw what they did, what he can do. At least on his turf, he's not expecting it. So I say we take the fight to him. Doctor. Do you concur?

Strange: (a pause) Alright , Stark. We go to him. But you have to understand...if it comes to saving you or the kid or the Time Stone... I will not hesitate to let either of you die. I can't, because the fate of the universe depends on it.

Tony: Good. Nice. Moral compass. We're straight. (Turning to Peter, he puts his outstretched arm briefly on either shoulder) Alright, kid. You're an Avenger now.

(Peter looks at Tony in disbelief, and then smiles and nods in satisfaction.)

[Cut to Gamora And Thanos aboard Thanos's ship. He brings a little cup of food and holds it out to her.]

Thanos: I thought you might be hungry.

(Gamora takes it, the hurls it across the room where it bangs against Thanos's chair with a loud clack.)

Gamora: I always hated that chair.

Thanos: So I've been told. Even so. I'd hoped you'd sit on it one day.

Gamora: I hated this room. This ship. I hated my life.

Thanos: You told me that too. Every day. For almost twenty years.

Gamora: I was a child when you took me.

Thanos: I saved you.

Gamora: No. No. We were happy on my home planet.

Thanos: Going to bed hungry. scrounging for scraps. Your planet was on the brink of collapse. I'm the one who stopped that. Do you know what's happened since then? The children born have known nothing but full bellies and clear skies. It's a paradise.

Gamora: Because you murdered half the planet.

Thanos: A small price to pay for salvation.

Gamora: You're insane.

Thanos: Little one, it's a simple calculus. This universe is finite, it's resources finite. If life is left unchecked, life will cease to exist. It needs correction.

Gamora: You don't know that!

Thanos: I'm the only one who knows that. At least, I'm the only one with the will to act on it. For a time...you had that same will...as you fought by my side. Daughter.

Gamora: I'm not your daughter. Everything I hate about myself you taught me.

Thanos: And in doing so, made you the fiercest woman in the galaxy. That's why I trusted you to find the Soul Stone.

Gamora: I'm sorry I disappointed you.

Thanos: I am disappointed. But not because you didn't find it. But because you did. And you lied.

[Cut to shot of a large metal door opening. Thanos and Gamora stand there as a set of inner doors made of interlacing metal slide away. Inside, we see that NEBULA is suspended horizontally in the air in the middle of the room.]

Gamora: Nebula.

( the camera shifts to the right side and we see that Nebula has been partially disassembled so that she is still living, yet still slightly connected to each of her parts.)

Gamora: Don't do this.

Thanos: Some time ago, your sister snuck aboard this ship to kill me.

Gamora: Please don't do this.

Thanos: And very nearly succeeded. So I brought her here. To talk.

(Thanos curls in both the power and space stones, causing Nebula's already extended pieces to stretch further outward. She begins to scream.)

Gamora: Stop. Stop it. I swear to you on my life. I never found the Soul Stone.

(Thanos signals a nearby servant who taps on a control pad. We hear Nebula's voice say, “Accessing memory files” and a sort of hologram of Gamora's face shudders to life.)

Memory Nebula: You know what he's about to do. He's finally ready, and he's going for the stones. All of them.

Memory Gamora: He can never get them all.

Memory Nebula: He will!

Memory Gamora: He can't, Nebula. Because I found the map to the Soul stone and I burnt it to ash. I burnt it.

(The memory ends)

Thanos: (To Gamora) You're strong. Me. You're generous. Me. But I never taught you to lie. That's why you're so bad at it. Where is the Soul Stone?

( He resumes torturing Nebula for several seconds, Gamora wincing at her screams.)

Gamora: Vormir!

(Thanos stops, and Nebula gasps in air. Gamora goes to her and caresses her face.)

Gamora: The Soul Stone is on Vormir.

Thanos: Show me.

[Cut to the pod where Thor, Rocket and Groot are.]

Groot: (Irritably) I am Groot.

Rocket: Tinkle in the cup. We're not looking. What's there to see? What's a twig? Everybody's seen a twig.

Groot: (Still irritably) I am Groot.

Thor: (While looking out the window) Tree, pour what's in the cup out in space, and go in the cup again.

Rocket: You speak Groot?

Thor: Yes, they taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.

Groot: (shortly) I am Groot.

Thor: You'll know when we're there. Nidavellir's forge harnesses the power of a blazing neutron star. (nostalgically) It's the birth place of my hammer. It's truly awesome.

(Rocket turns to see Thor sitting sadly beside the window, and sighs)

Rocket: Okay, time to be the captain. (walks to a console near by Thor) So, dead brother, huh? Yeah, that can be annoying.

Thor: Well, he's been dead before, but this time I think it really might be true.

Rocket: And you said your sister and your dad?

Thor: Both dead.

Rocket: Still got a mom, though?

Thor: Killed by a dark elf.

Rocket: A best friend?

Thor: Stabbed through the heart.

Rocket: Are you sure you're up to this particular murder mission?

Thor: (Smiling widely) Absolutely. Rage, vengeance, anger, loss, regret...They're all tremendous motivators. They really clear the mind. So I'm good to go.

Rocket: Yeah, but this Thanos we're talking about...He's the toughest there is.

Thor: Well, he's never fought me.

Rocket: Yeah, he has.

Thor: He's never fought me twice. And I'm getting a new hammer, don't forget.

Rocket: Better be some hammer.

Thor: You know, I'm 1,500 years old. I've killed twice as many enemies as that, and every one would have rather killed me, but none succeeded. I'm only alive because fate wants me alive. Thanos is the latest in a long line of *morons* and he will be the latest to feel my vengeance.

Rocket: And what if you're wrong?

Thor: If I'm wrong then what more could I lose?

(Thor stands and seats himself at the front of the pod, beside Groot)

Rocket: I could lose a lot. Me personally. I could lose a lot. (Rocket takes an eyeball from somewhere on his person) Okay. If fate does want you to kill that crapsack... You're gonna need more than one stupid eyeball. (He gives Thor the eyeball)

Thor: What's this?

Rocket: What's it look like? Some jerk lost a bet with me on on Contraxia.

Thor: He gave you his eye?

Rocket: He gave me 100 credits. I snuck in later that night and stole his eye.

Thor: Thank you, sweet rabbit.

(Thor proceeds to put the eyeball in his socket)

Rocket: Hmm. Huh? Oh. I would've washed that. The only way I could sneak it off Contraxia was up my...Hey, we're here!

Thor: (Smacking his palm against the side of his head) I don't think this thing works. Everything seems dark.

Rocket: It ain't the eye.

(Nidavellir is dark and motionless as the three near it)

Thor: Something's wrong. The star's gone out. And the rings are frozen.

(Cuts to inside the forge, where Thor, Rocket and Groot walk through a seemingly abandon, and cluttered room)

Rocket: I hope these dwarves are better at forging than they are cleaning...Maybe they realized they live in a junk pile in the middle of space...

Thor: This forge hasn't gone dark in centuries...

Rocket: (Looking to a pedestal) You said Thanos had a gauntlet, right?

Thor: Yes. Why?

Rocket: Look anything like that?

Groot: I am Groot.

Rocket: Go back to the pod.

(Suddenly a large figure storms towards them fiercely)

Thor: Eitri, wait! Stop! Stop.

Eitri: Thor?

Thor: What happened here?

Eitri: You were supposed to protect us. Asgard was supposed to protect us!

Thor: Asgard is destroyed. Eitri, the glove. What did you do?

Eitri: (He pauses before beginning his solemn story) 300 dwarves lived on this ring. I thought if I did what he asked, they'd be safe. I made what he wanted. A device capable of harnessing the power of the stones. Then he killed everyone anyway. All except me. “Your life is yours.” he said “But your hands are mine alone.”

Thor: Eitri, this isn't about your hands. Every weapon you've designed, every axe, hammer sword...It's all inside your head. Now I know all hope feels lost. Trust me, I know. But together, you and I, we can kill Thanos.

[Cut to Nebula suspended in the interrogation room seen earlier, while a guard puts her back together. Nebula ejects her eyepiece; disposing of the guard when he comes to replace it. She walks to a console, dragging her dislocated metal foot behind her, and inputs a code.]

Nebula: Mantis, listen very carefully. I need you to meet me on Titan.

[Cut to Peter Parker, Tony Stark, and Doctor Strange aboard the ship]

Peter Parker: (To Tony) Hey, what's going on?

Tony: I think we're here. I don't think this rig has a self-park function. (Instructing Peter to put his arm in the machine for piloting) Get your hand into this steering gimbal. Close those around it. You understand?

Peter Parker: Yep, got it.

Tony: This was meant for one big guy, so we gotta to move at the same time.

Peter Parker: Okay. Okay. Ready.

Tony: We might wanna turn.

Peter Parker: Turn! Turn! Turn!

(Strange creates a shield around them to prevent them from being killed in the landing.)

(The ship, now partially gone, lands on Titan)

Tony: (To Strange) You alright?

Tony: That was close. I owe you one.

(Peter Parker descends from above in spider-like fashion)

Peter Parker: Let me just say, if aliens wind up implanting eggs in my chest or something...And I end up eating you, I'm sorry.

Tony: (While pointing at Peter) I don't wanna hear another single pop culture out of you for the rest of the trip. You understand?

Peter Parker: I'm trying to say that something is coming.

(A grenade rolls into view, and Peter, Strange and Tony get back. Star-Lord, Drax, and Mantis appear in the doorway)

Drax: (Yelling) Thanos!

(The Cloak of Levitation flies at Drax's face and whips him around. Star-Lord pins Iron Man to the wall with a magnetic disc)

Peter Parker: (While crawling backward from Mantis) Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa! Please don't put your eggs in me!

(Peter webs Mantis' arms to her body, and Star-Lord flies at him front the side, kicking him down.)

Star-Lord: Stay down, clown.

(Tony fires at the flying Star-Lord as Peter Parker extends his spider legs and jumps at him, but Star-Lord throws an electric cord that wraps around Parker sending him to the ground)

Drax: (Struggling with the Cloak of Levitation) Die, blanket of death!

(Iron Man pulls free of the magnet. They pull weapons on each other. Star-Lord has Peter Parker in a head-lock, while Iron Man stands over Drax with a gun, and Doctor Strange stands ready near Mantis)

Star-Lord: Everybody stay where you are. Chill F out. (Quill powers off his helmet) I'm gonna ask you this one time. Where's Gamora?

Tony: Yeah, I'll do you one better. Who's Gamora?

Drax: I'll do you one better! Why is Gamora?

Star-Lord: Tell me where the girl is, or I swear to you, I'm gonna French fry this little freak.

Tony: Let's do it! You shoot my guy, I blast him. Let's go! (Tony extends his nanotech gun)

Drax: Do it, Quill! I can take it.

Mantis: No he can't take it!

Strange: She's right. You can't.

Star-Lord: Oh yeah? You don't wanna tell me where she is? That's fine. I'll kill all three of you and beat it out of Thanos myself. (To Parker) Starting with you.

Strange: Wait, what, Thanos? All right, let me ask you this one time. What master do you serve?

Star-Lord: What master do I serve? What am I supposed to say? “Jesus”?

Tony: You're from Earth?

Star-Lord: I'm not from Earth. I'm from Missouri.

Tony: Yeah, that's on Earth dip-shit. What are you hassling us for?

Peter Parker: So, you're not with Thanos?

Star-Lord: With Thanos? (scoffs) No, I'm here to kill Thanos. He took my girl- Wait, who are you?

Peter Parker: We're the Avengers, man.

Star-Lord: Oh.

Mantis: You're the ones Thor told us about.

Tony: You know Thor?

Star-Lord: Yeah. Tall guy, not the good-looking, needed saving.

Strange: Where is he now?

[Cut to Nidavellir where Eitri is showing Thor, Rocket, and Groot the mold for Stormbreaker]

Rocket: This is plan? We're gonna hit him with a brick?

Eitri: It's a mold. A king's weapon. Meant to be the greatest in Asgard. In theory, it could even summon the Bifrost.

Thor: Did it have a name?

Eitri: Stormbreaker.

Rocket: That's a bit much.

Thor: So how do we make it?

Eitri: You'll have to restart the forge. Awaken the heart of a dying star.

Thor: Rabbit, fire up the pod.

[Cut to Titan where Quill is measuring the planet's tilt. Mantis is jumping in the low gravity]

Quill: The *heck* happened to this planet? It's eight degrees off its axis. Gravitational pull is all over the place.

Tony: Yeah, we got one advantage. He's coming to us. We'll use it. All right, I have a plan. Or at least the beginnings of one. It's pretty simple. We draw him in, pin him down, get what we need. Definitely don't wanna dance with this guy. We just need the gauntlet.

(Drax yawns)

Tony: Are you yawning? In the middle of this, while I'm breaking it down? Huh? Did you hear what I said?

Drax: I stopped listening after you said, “We need a plan.”

Tony: (To Quill) Okay, Mr. Clean is on his own page.

Quill: See, “not winging it” isn't really what they do.

Peter Parker: Uh, what exactly do they do?

Mantis: Kick names, take ass.

Drax: (Quietly as he shifts to a commanding position beside Mantis) Yeah, that's right

Tony: (Tony stands for a moment with an expression of hopelessness) Alright, just get over her, please. Mr. Lord can you get your folks to circle up?

Quill: “Mr. Lord.” Star-Lord is fine. (Motions to Drax and Mantis)

Tony: We gotta coalesce. ‘Cause if all we come at him with is a plucky attitude..”

Quill: Dude, don't call us plucky. We don't know what is means. Alright, we're optimistic, yes. I like your plan. Except it sucks, so let me do the plans, and that way it might be really good.

Drax: Tell him about the dance-off to save the universe.

Tony: What dance-off?

Quill: It's nothing.

Peter Parker: Like in Footloose, the movie?

Quill: (Excitedly) Exactly like Footloose. Is it still the greatest movie in history?

Peter Parker: It never was.

(Quill frowns sadly at him)

Tony: Don't encourage this, alright?

Peter Parker: Okay.

Tony: We're getting no help from Flash Gordon here.

Quill: Flash Gordon? By the way, that's a compliment. Don't forget, I'm half human. (Quill points at Stark and Parker) So that 50% of me that's stupid... That's 100% you.

Tony: Your math is blowing my mind.

Mantis: Excuse me, but...Does your friend often do that?

(Strange is sitting cross-legged, his hands poised in a mystic gesture with the Time Stone suspended between them. His eyes are closed, and his head is jerking rapidly from side to side)

Tony: Strange, we alright?

(Strange seems to snap out of it as he starts forward, letting out a cry)

Tony: You're back. You're alright. Hi.

Peter Parker: Hey, what was that?

Strange: (Speaking breathlessly) I went forward in time to view alternate futures. To see all the possible outcomes of the coming conflict.

Quill: How did you see?

Strange: 14,000,605.

Tony: How many did we win?

(Strange pauses a while before answering)

Strange: One.

[Cut to Vormir, where Thanos and Gamora have just appeared outside a mountain]

Thanos: The stone had better be up there...For your sister's sake.

(Cut to inside the mountain where Thanos and Gamora stand before a cloaked, faceless figure there to guard the way)

Stonekeeper: Welcome, Thanos, son of Eros. Gamora, daughter of Thanos.

Thanos: You know us?

Stonekeeper: It is my curse to know all who journey here.

Thanos: Where's the Soul Stone?

Stonekeeper: You should know...It extracts a terrible price.

Thanos: I am prepared.

Stonekeeper: We all think that at first. (The figure glides farther out of the shadows and reveals the face of who we know to be Red Skull from Captain America: The First Avenger) We are all wrong.

(Cut to the Red Skull leading Thanos and Gamora to an outside pinnacle)

Thanos: How is it you know this place so well?

Red Skull: A lifetime ago, I, too, sought the stones. I even held one in my hand. But it cast me out, banished me here. Guiding others to a treasure I cannot possess.

(They come to the edge of mountaintop, and stop at the precipice)

Red Skull: What you seek lies before you. As does what you fear.

Thanos: What's this?

Red Skull: The price. Soul hold a special place among the Infinity Stones. You might say it has a certain wisdom.

Thanos: Tell me what it needs.

Red Skull: To ensure that whoever possesses it... Understands its power... The stone demands a sacrifice.

Thanos: Of what?

Red Skull: In order to take the stone you must lose that which you love. A soul...For a soul.

(Gamora begins to laugh at the irony of the situation)

Gamora: All my life, I dreamed of a day...A moment when you would get what you deserved. And I was always so disappointed. But now...You kill and torture...And you call it mercy. The universe has judged you. You asked it for a prize, and it told you no. You failed. And do you wanna know why? Because you love nothing. No one.

Thanos: (Turning to face Gamora with tears in his eyes) No.

Gamora: Really? Tears?

Red Skull: They're not for him.

(Gamora looks at Red Skull, and seems to realize what is about to happen)

Gamora: No. This isn't love.

Thanos: I ignored my destiny once. I cannot do that again. Even for you. I'm sorry, little one.

(Thanos grabs Gamora by the arm and takes her to the precipice)

Gamora: No!

(She tries in vain to brake from his grasp but he soon throws her over the side, and watches sorrowfully as she falls to her death)

[Cut to Thanos lying in water. He opens his hand and sees that he now has the Soul Stone.]

[Cut to the Quinjet where Sam is piloting Rhodey, Steve, Natasha, Wanda, and Vision]

Sam: Drop to 2600, heading 0-3-0. I hope you're right about this, Cap. Or we're gonna land a lot faster than you want to.

(The Quinjet passes through a force field into Wakanda)

Okoye: (Walking with T'Challa and a band of the King's Guard) When you said we were going to open Wakanda to the rest of the world...This is not what I imagined.

T'Challa: And what did you imagine?

Okoye: The Olympics. Maybe even a Starbucks.

(The occupants of the Quinjet descend the ramp)

Bruce Banner: (To Rhodey) Should we bow?

Rhodes: Yeah, he's a king.

Steve Rodgers: Seems like I'm always thanking you for something. (Shaking hands with T'Challa)

(Bruce bows in front of him)

Rhodes: What are you doing?

T'Challa: Uh, we don't do that here. (He dissuades with a motion of his hand) So how big of an assault can we expect?

(The group begins to walk back the way it come to greet the guests)

Bruce Banner: Uh, sir, I think you can expect quite a big assault.

Steve Rogers: How we looking?

T'Challa: You will have my King's Guard, the Border Tribe, the Dora Milaje, and...

Bucky: (Walking forward toward Steve) A semi-stable, 100-year-old man.

(The two friends share a hug)

Steve: How you been, Buck?

Bucky: Uh, not bad, for the end of the world.

(Cut to inside Shuri's lab where Vision lays on a table, while Bruce and Shuri stand over him, and the others watch. Shuri scans the stone, and studies the hologram)

Shuri: Whoa. The structure is polymorphic.

Bruce: Right, we had to attach each neuron non-sequentially.

Shuri: Why didn't you just reprogram the synapses to work collectively?

Bruce: (Staring for a moment) Because, we didn't think of it.

Shuri: (smiling) I'm sure you did your best.

Wanda: Can you do it?

Shuri: Yes, but there are more than two trillion neurons here. One misalignment could cause a cascade of circuit failures. (To T'Challa) It will take time, brother.

Steve: How long?

Shuri: As long as you can give me.

Okoye: (Looking at a device that just alerted her) Something's entered the atmosphere.

(Cut to outside where Sam and Bucky stand, looking up a the sky)

Sam: (Over the comm) Hey, Cap, we got a situation here.

(The defense shield around Wakanda destroys one of the vessels entering the atmosphere)

Bucky: God, I love this place.

Sam: Yeah, don't start celebrating yet, guys. We got more incoming outside the dome.

Vision: (Appearing beside the window with the others) It's too late. We need to destroy the stone now.

Natasha: (Turning toward Vision) Vision, get your *rear* back on the table.

T'Challa: We will hold them off.

Steve: (To Wanda) Wanda, as soon as the stone's out of his head...you blow it to hell.

Wanda: I will.

T'Challa: Evacuate the city. Engage all defense procedures. (He points to Steve) And get this man a shield.

(Cut to Nidavellir where Rocket is in the pod, and Thor jumps from the roof onto the rings with a rope in his hand attached to the pod)

Rocket: I don't think you get the scientifics here. These rings are gigantic.You wanna get them moving...You're gonna need something a lot bigger to yank 'em loose.

Thor: Leave that to me.

Rocket: Leave that to you? Buddy, you're in space. All you got is a rope and a-

(Thor begins to swing the pod around. He lets the pod drag him, until he stops himself by digging his feet into the ring, still holding the pod. The rings begin to move)

Thor: More power, rabbit!

(Finally the star bursts into life, the rings align, and a jet of light streams through the forge)

Eitri: Well done, boy.

(Thor, hanging on, looks through the pod window, at Rocket, an points to the star)

Thor: That's Nidavellir.

(The iris closes and the beam of light recedes back into the star)

Eitri: *Dang* it.

Rocket: “*Dang* it.”? What's “*dang* it?

Eitri: The mechanism is crippled.

Thor: What?

Eitri: With the iris closed I can't heat the metal.

Thor: How long will it take to heat?

Eitri: A few minutes, maybe more. Why?

Thor: I'm gonna hold it open.

Eitri: That's suicide.

Thor: So is facing Thanos without that axe.

[Cut to the Wakandan battlefield. Their carriers hover over the ground with Wakandan soldier and Natasha, Steve and Bucky on board, and Bruce is in the Hulkbuster]

Natasha: How we looking, Bruce?

Bruce: (While walking) Yeah, I think I'm getting the hang of it. Wow! It's like being the Hulk without actually- (He stumbles on a rock, and a carrier goes by, from which Okoye gives him a dubious look. He stands) I'm okay. I'm okay.

Sam: We got two heat signatures breaking through the tree line.

(M'Baku of the Jubari rallies his soldiers with a war cry. He stops as T'Challa nears him)

T'Challa: Thank you for standing with us.

M'Baku: (Translated) Of course, brother.

(T'Challa, Steve, and Natasha walk to the edge of the barrier, where Proxima Midnight and Obsidian Cole stand)

Natasha: Where's your other friend?

Proxima: You will pay for his life with yours. Thanos will have that stone.

Steve: That's not gonna happen.

T'Challa: You are in Wakanda now. Thanos will have nothing but dust and blood.

Proxima: We...Have blood to spare. (She raises her right arm with a cry, and several large ships emerge from the forest behind her.)

(T'Challa, Steve, Natasha return to the front line)

Bucky: Did they surrender?

Steve: Not exactly.

(T'Challa leads the Wakandans in the war cry “Yibambe!” telling them to hold fast as the Outriders bound toward the barrier)

Bucky: What the hell?

Natasha: Looks like we pissed her off.

(T'Challa commands the soldiers to engage their shields)

Okoye: (Watching as the Outriders bombard the dome only a few getting through) They're killing themselves.

Sam: (Sending Redwings into the fight as he flies) You seen the teeth on those things?

Rhodes: Alright, back up, Sam. You're gonna get your wings singed. (He flies over a section that has been breached and drops a barrage of mines)

Sam: Cap, if these things circle the perimeter and get in behind us...There's nothing between them and Vision.

Steve: Them we better keep 'em in front of us.

Okoye: (To T'Challa) How do we do that?

T'Challa: We open the barrier. (Putting his hand to his ear) On my signal, open North-West Section Seventeen.

Wakandan Officer: Requesting confirmation, My King. You said open the barrier?

T'Challa: On my signal.

M'Baku: (To Okoye) This will be the end of Wakanda.

Okoye: Then it will be the noblest ending in history.

(The section of the barrier is opened)

T'Challa: Wakanda Forever! (He crosses his hands over his chest as his Black Panther helmet covers his face, leading the army as they run toward the barrier. T'Challa and Steve are at the front of the advancing army) Now! (The section in the barrier disappears and the Outriders charge at them)

T'Challa: How much longer, Shuri? (Over the comm)

Shuri: We've barely begun, brother.

T'Challa: You might want to pick up the pace.

(Cut to Thor on the rings of Nidavellir)

Thor: Allfathers, give me strength.

Eitri: You understand, boy? You're about to take the full force of a star. It'll kill you.

Thor: Only if I die.

Eitri: Yes. That's what killing you means.

(Thor grasps the handholds and pulls, slowly opening the iris. The stream of light returns and awakens the forge once more.)

Eitri: Hold it! Hold it, Thor!

(Eitri watches the metal melt, and tips the cauldron, pouring it into the mold. Thor passes out, and the jet carries him to the forge. Rocket follows him, in the pod, and Groot looks up from his game when Thor lands near him)

Rocket: (Kneeling over Thor) Thor! Say something. Come on. Thor, you okay? (To Eitri) I think he's dying.

Eitri: He needs the axe! Where's the handle? Tree, help me find the handle!

(Groot looks sadly at Thor, stands and grows a longer arm, weaving it around the axe and hammer, joining them,and then cutting his arm off at the usual length. Thor's hand opens slightly, and the hammer rises from the ground; lightening flickering from it)

(Cut to Wakanda where the Avengers and Wakandans are struggling against the Outriders. Suddenly, a large beam of light lands nearby, and the Avengers and Wakandans stop to look up as the axe flies through the air, electrocuting the Outriders. Thor appears with his new axe Stormbreaker, alongside Rocket and Groot.)

Bruce: [laughing with joy] Hah! Hah! Hah! You guys are so screwed now!

Thor: BRING ME THANOS!!! (He charges toward the hoards of Outriders, followed by Groot and Rocket)

[Cut to Titan, where Thanos appears in front of Doctor Strange, who appears to be the only one there]

Strange: Oh, you're much more of a Thanos.

Thanos: I take it the Maw is dead. This day extracts a heavy toll. Still, he accomplished his mission.

Strange: You may regret that. He brought you face-to-face with the Master of the Mystic Arts.

Thanos: And where do you think he brought you? (Star-Lord is near by behind wreckage with his weapon ready, and Spiderman is above the structure where Strange sits.

Strange: Let me guess. Your home?

Thanos: (Smiling reminiscently) It was. And it was beautiful. (Thanos uses the Reality Stone to show Strange Titan before it was destroyed) Titan was like most planets. Too many mouths, and not enough to go around. And when we faced extinction, I offered a solution.

Strange: Genocide.

Thanos: But at random, dispassionate, fair to rich and poor alike. They called me a madman. And what I predicted came to pass. (The illusion fades into the true state of Titan)

Strange: Congratulations. You're a prophet.

Thanos: I'm a survivor.

Strange: Who wants to murder trillions.

Thanos: With all six stones, I could simply snap my fingers, and they would all cease to exist. I call that...Mercy.

Strange: And then what?

Thanos: I finally rest...And watch the sun rise on a grateful universe. The hardest choices require the strongest wills.

Strange: I think you'll find our will (Using his hand motions) equal to yours.

Thanos: Ours? (He looks up in time to a see a chunk of wreckage coming down on him, and tries to use the Power to stop, but is too late)

Iron Man: (Flying in) Piece of cake, Quill.

Quill: (Flying in from the other side) Yeah, if your goal was to *tick* him off.

(The wreckage on top of Thanos erupts, the pieces glowing with purple. He shouts as he uses the Power Stone to force the pieces at Iron Man. Spiderman webs his eyes, and swings in the kick him in the face. Then Strange summons a blade, but Thanos stops it with his hand, and tears the web from his eyes. He advances on Strange, and kicks him just as Strange summons a shield, absorbing the force of his blow, but knocking him back. Star-Lord shoots Thanos from behind, and Thanos uses the Power Stone to shoot balls on energy at Star-Lord while he advances by the steps Strange formed in the air, and places a electric mine on his back. He turns to Quill, as he disengages his helmet, dives backward into a portal, flipping him off.)

Star-Lord: Boom!

(Thanos tries to use the Space Stone to pull Quill back)

Strange: (To the Cloak of Levitation) Do not let him close his fist.

(The Cloak closes around Thanos' fist, and the mine on his back goes off. Spiderman appears on his right from a portal)

Spider-Man: Magic. (He kicks him in the head) More magic.

(He then leaps into another portal. As Thanos tries to recover, he appears through another portal behind him)

Spider-Man: Magic with a kick! (He kicks him again in the head with his right leg)

(Finally, he appears on his right)

Spider-Man: Magic with a-

(Before he can finish Thanos turns, grabbing him from the air, and throwing him to the ground, with his hand around his neck.)

Thanos: Insect! (He then throws him, about to use the gauntlet, but is interrupted by an explosion caused by Iron Man shooting a missile at him. As the flames blind Thanos, Spiderman attaches a web to him, and strains against it. Thanos pulls Spiderman toward him, but looks up as a ship crashes beside him, and Nebula jumps in front of him)

Thanos: Well, well.

Nebula: You should have killed me.

Thanos: It would've been a waste of parts!

Nebula: [she runs at Thanos, attacking him with her sword] Where's Gamora?!

[Strange uses the Space Stone to case her aside, flailing. Strange forms energy ropes that grapple onto the gauntlet. Thanos tries to pull it free, as Star-Lord shoots a electric magnet onto the ground beside him, holding down his other hand. Spiderman swings in, and makes a string of web, holding him back, enabling his spider legs to anchor himself, as Strange opens a portal above Thanos out of which drops Mantis, who lands on his shoulders, her hands on his temples. He screams as she tries to put him under]

Iron Man: [while pulling on the gauntlet] Is he under? Don't let up.

Mantis: [starting to cry] Be quick... He is very strong!

Iron Man: Parker, help! Get over here. [Parker withdraws his web, and hurries to help Tony with the gauntlet] She can't hold him much longer. Let's go. We gotta open his fingers to get it off!

Star-Lord: [lands, then joins with the others] I thought you'd be harder to catch. For the record, this was my plan. Not so strong now, huh? Where's Gamora?

Thanos: ... My... Gamora...?

Star-Lord: Oh, bull–shit. Where is she?

Mantis: [shocked] He is in anguish!

Star-Lord: Good.

Mantis: [crying] He... he... he mourns!

Drax: What does this monster have to mourn?!

Nebula: [she suddenly understands in horror what Thanos has done with...] Gamora.

Star-Lord: ... What?

Nebula: He took her to Vormir. He came back with the Soul Stone...but she didn't.

Iron Man: Okay, Quill, you gotta cool it right now, understand?

[Quill slowly turns to Thanos]

Iron Man: Don't, don't, don't engage, we've almost got this off!

Star-Lord: Tell me she's lying. [enraged] ASSHOLE!!! Tell me you didn't do it!!!

Thanos: I... had... to.

Star-Lord: [while starting to tear up; quietly] No, you didn't... No, you didn't... [he continues to rage and then proceeds to pistol-whip Thanos in the face] NO, YOU DIDN'T!!!

Drax: Quill!

[Quill uses his gun to pound Thanos in the face twice. Iron Man goes to hold him back, as Peter Parker is left to pull off the gauntlet]

Iron Man: [to the struggling Quill] Hey, stop! Hey, stop! Stop! Hey, stop! Stop!

Spider-Man: It's coming! It's coming! I got it! I got it...!!

[But Thanos wakes, butting Mantis from his shoulders, and grabbing the cuff of the gauntlet just as it is sliding off his hand, causing Parker to stumble back, and Mantis to go flying]

Spider-Man: [seeing Mantis flying] Oh, God! [he jumps and hugs her, extending his spider legs which give them a safe landing]

[Strange summons a weapon, and Thanos uses the Space Stone to throw him away. Then, Iron Man shoots at him, but Thanos bats him down, and uses the Space Stone to pull down the surface of a moon. Stark tries to fly away, but a large chunk pins him down]

Stonekeeper: Welcome, Thanos, son of Eros, Gamora, daughter of Thanos.

Thanos: You know us?

Stonekeeper: It is my curse to know all who journey here.

Thanos: Where is the Soul Stone?

Stonekeeper: You should know: it extracts a terrible price.

Thanos: I am prepared.

Stonekeeper: We all think that at first. [his face is revealed as the Red Skull] We are all wrong.

Thanos: How is it you know this place so well?

Red Skull: A lifetime ago, I too sought the stones. I even held one in my hand. But it cast me out, banished me here, guiding others to a treasure I cannot possess.

Gamora: I was a child when you took me.

Thanos: I saved you.

Gamora: No, no, we were happy on my home planet.

Thanos: Going to bed hungry, scrounging for scraps? Your planet was on the brink of collapse. I was the one who stopped that. You know what's happened since then? The children born have known nothing but full bellies and clear skies. It's a paradise.

Gamora: Because you murdered half the planet!

Thanos: A small price to pay for salvation.

Gamora: You're INSANE.

Thanos: Little one, it's a simple calculus. This universe is finite, its resources ... finite. If life is left unchecked, life will cease to exist. It needs correcting.

Gamora: YOU DON'T KNOW THAT!

Thanos: I'm the only one who knows that. At least, I'm the only who the will to act on it.

Rocket: You speak Groot?!

Thor: Yes, they taught it on Asgard. It was an elective.

Groot: I am Groot?

Thor: You'll know when we're close. Nidavellir's forge harnesses the blazing power of a Neutron Star. It's the birthplace of my hammer; it's truly awesome.

Rocket: [to himself] Okay, time to be the Captain. [to Thor] So, dead brother, huh? That can be annoying.

Thor: Well, he's been dead before. But this time... I think it really might be true.

Rocket: And you said that your sister and your dad...

Thor: Both dead.

Rocket: But, still got a mom, though?

Thor: Killed by a Dark Elf.

Rocket: Best friend?

Thor: Stabbed through the heart.

Rocket: You sure you're up for this particular murder mission?

Thor: Absolutely. The rage, vengeance, anger, loss, regret, they're all tremendous motivators. They truly clear the mind... so, I'm good to go.

Rocket: Yeah, but this is Thanos we're talking about, he's the toughest there is.

Thor: Well, he's never fought me.

Rocket: ... Yeah, he has!

Thor: Well, he's never fought me twice. And I'll have a new hammer, don't forget.

Rocket: Well, it'd better be some hammer.

Thor: You know, I'm one thousand and five hundred years old. I've killed twice as many enemies as that, and every one of them would have rather killed me, but none succeeded. I'm only alive because Fate wants me alive. Thanos is just the latest in a long line of bastards, and he'll be the latest to feel my vengeance. Fate wills it so.

Rocket: And what if you're wrong?

Thor: Well, if I'm wrong, then... what more could I lose?

Gamora: All my life I dreamed of a day, a moment, when you got what you deserved. And I was always so disappointed. But now, you kill and torture and you call it mercy. The universe has judged you. You asked it for a prize and it told you no. You failed. And do you wanna know why? Because you love nothing. No one.

Thanos: [sheds a tear] No.

Gamora: Really? Tears?

Red Skull: They are not for him.

[Gamora realizes what Thanos is going to do]

Gamora: No. This isn't love.

Thanos: I ignored my destiny once. I cannot do that again. Even for you.

[Gamora anguishly takes the double-edged knife Thanos had given her, then tries to kill herself. But Thanos uses the Reality Stone, turning the knife into bubbles]

Thanos: [anguished] I'm sorry, little one.

Gamora: [muted] NO!

Banner: Who's Scott?

Steve Rogers: Ant-Man.

Banner: There's an Ant-Man and a Spider-Man?!

Stark: [to the Guardians] We gotta work together. Because if all we come out with is a plucky attitude...

Quill: Dude, don't call us plucky. We don't know what it means. We're more optimistic, yes. I like your plan. Except...it sucks. So, let me do the plan and that way...it might be really good.

Drax: Tell him about the dance-off to save the universe.

Stark: What dance-off?

Quill: It's not a thing.

Parker: Like in Footloose? The movie?

Quill: Exactly like Footloose. Is it still the greatest movie in history?

Parker: It never was.

Stark: Don't encourage this alright we're not getting any help from Flash Gordon.

Quill: Flash Gordon? That's a compliment. Don't forget, I'm half human. So that 50% of me that's stupid, that's 100% you.

[Thanos emerges from a teleport on the ruined Titan]

Strange: Oh, yeah. You're much more of a “Thanos”.

Thanos: I take it that Maw is dead? This day extracts a heavy toll. Still, he accomplished his mission.

Strange: You may regret that. He brought you face-to-face with the Master of the Mystic Arts.

Thanos: Where do you think he brought you?

Strange: Let me guess. Your home.

Thanos: It was. [activates the Reality Stone, showing a holographic image of a populated Titan] And it was beautiful. Titan was like most planets; too many mouths, not enough to go around. And when we faced extinction, I offered a solution.

Strange: Genocide?

Thanos: At random. Dispassionate, fair; To rich and poor alike. They called me a madman... and what I predicted came to pass.

Strange: Congratulations, you're a prophet.

Thanos: I'm a survivor.

Strange: Who wants to murder trillions.

Thanos: With all six stones, I could simply snap my fingers; They would all cease to exist. I call that... mercy.

Strange: Then what?

Thanos: I finally rest and watch the Sun rise on a grateful universe. The hardest choices require the strongest wills.

Strange: [he summons his Mandalas, entering a fighting pose] I think you'll find our wills equal to yours.

Thanos: Ours?

[Stark crushes Thanos with a pillar of wreckage]

Stark: Piece of cake, Quill.

Quill: Yeah, if your goal is to piss him off!

Tony Stark: So this is it. It's all been leading to this.

Thor: Ready?

Steve Rogers: Let's go.

Gamora: He won't stop. Until he destroys half the universe. Everything you know... Everything you love... It will all be gone.

Peter Quill: Let's talk about this plan of yours. I think it's good, except it sucks. So let me do the plan and that way it might be really good.

Tony Stark: Wow.

Thanos: The end is near. When I'm done, half of humanity will still exist. Perfectly balanced, as all things should be.

[upon seeing Steve]

Thor: New haircut? I notice you've copied my beard. Oh, by the way, this is a friend of mine. A tree.

Groot: I am Groot.

Steve Rogers: I am Steve Rogers.

Bruce Banner: [trying to change into the Hulk] Hulk. Hulk, I know you like making your entrance at the last second, well, this is it, man. This is the last, last second. Hulk! Hulk! Hulk! [Hulk: NOOOO!] Oh, screw you, you big green asshole! I'll do it myself!

    Many missing lines - please complete

[Thanos has just got the Infinity Stones; Thor suddenly hurls Stormbreaker, which goes right into Thanos' chest]

Thor: I told you. You'd die for that!

[He takes hold of the back of Thanos's head and forces Stormbreaker deeper into his chest, staring angrily into his eyes while Thanos cries out in pain]

Thanos: You should've... You... You should've gone for the head!!

[He raises his gauntlet and snaps his fingers]

Thor: NO!

[Thanos is now briefly inside the Soul Stone, where he sees a young Gamora on the home world of the Zen-Whoberi]

Thanos: Daughter?

Gamora: Did you do it?

Thanos: Yes.

Gamora: [beat] What did it cost?

Thanos: [solemnly] ... Everything.

[Now out of the Soul Stone, Thanos notices the damages inflicted on the scorched Gauntlet]

Thor: What did you do? [angrily] WHAT DID YOU DO?!

[Thanos mockingly smirks at Thor before he uses the Space Stone and teleports away, leaving Stormbreaker left on the Wakandian field]

Captain America: Where'd he go? Thor... where'd he go?

Bucky Barnes: [feeling his prosthetic arm turning into ash] Steve?

[Bucky suddenly stumbles over, and collapses into ashes, much to Steve's shock; Thor watches Steve mourning Bucky's death. On the battlefield, Wakankan soldiers disintegrate to ashes, much to M'Baku's horror]

T'Challa: [while reaching for a fallen Okoye] Up, General. Up! This is no place to die. [he suddenly disintegrates into ashes and Okoye falls back on the ground, much to her anguish]

Okoye: Hezvo...?!

Groot: [resting on a tree branch; slowly disintegrating, to Rocket] I am Groot... [Translation: “Dad?”]

Rocket: [as Groot starts slowly to corrode into ashes, much to Rocket's horror] No... No. No. No. No! Groot... no.

[Scarlet Witch is mourning over Vision. She then turns into ashes. An injured Falcon turns to ashes, hidden in the brush]

War Machine: [searching for Falcon, missing him by only a few feet] Sam? Sam!? Where you at?!

[Back on Titan, the remaining members of the Guardians and Avengers help themselves up from their battle against Thanos they had lost]

Mantis: Something... is... happening. [she gets dusted into ashes]

Drax: [to Quill; his right arm and lower-half of his body slowly turns to ashes] Quill...?

[Drax gets disintegrated next as Quill stares in horror]

Tony Stark: Steady, Quill.

Quill: Aw, man.

[Quill also gets disintegrated into ashes]

Strange: [calmly turns to Stark] Tony, there was no other way. [he finally gets erased]

Parker: [feels himself starting to disintegrate and doesn't want to die] Mister Stark? I don't feel so good...

Tony Stark: [trying to be calm] You're all right.

Parker: [stumbling] I don't know what's – I don't know what's happening. I don't – [Parker falls into Stark's arms, clutching him tight and crying] Save me, save me! I don't wanna go, I don't wanna go, Sir, please. Please, I don't wanna go. I don't wanna go... I'm sorry.

[Parker disintegrates into ashes in Stark's arms]

Nebula: [to Tony Stark, seeing Thanos' victory] He did it.

[Stark mourns silently at his failure it caused. Back on Wakanda, the remaining team members, Captain America, Thor, War Machine, Black Widow, Bruce Banner, and Rocket are left mourning near Vision's dead body]

War Machine: What is this? What the hell is happening?

Captain America: ... Oh, God.

[Meanwhile, on a different planet, Thanos sits down and watches the Sun rising]

Nick Fury: Still no word from Stark?

Maria Hill: No, not yet. We're watching every satellite in both hemispheres, there's still nothing. [receives three beeps from her device]

Fury: What is it?

Hill: Multiple bogeys over Wakanda.

Fury: Same energy signatures as New York?

Hill: Ten times bigger.

Fury: Call Klein. We'll meet him at –

Hill: NICK!

[Suddenly, a car spirals out of control into them. Hill goes over to check on the driver of the car, but sees no one is in there]

Fury: They okay?

Hill: There's no one here.

[Suddenly, a helicopter, with ash flying out, crashes into a building. The two are now witnessing civilians around them suddenly disintegrating]

Fury: Call control. Code Red!

Hill: [alerting Fury] Nick...?

[Fury turns around to see Hill disintegrating]

Fury: Hill?

[Fury then races back to their car and gets a pager out. He sends out an emergency alert, mere seconds before his hand turns into ashes]

Fury: Oh, no. Motherf –

[Fury corrodes to dust. The pager falls to the ground; we see the device display a red-and-blue star insignia, indicating the symbol of Captain Marvel] 

[The screen first panels up to an arrow being knocked into a bow. The archer behind firmly grips it tight as it was aiming towards the target. The camera reveals Clint Barton holding up a few arrows while mentoring his daughter, Lila Barton, on shooting one.]

Clint Barton: How about now?

[Both Lila and Clint giggle, as the camera panels into a long shot showing a target nailed on a tree, and the rest of Barton family having a picnic in the field.]

Clint Barton: Alright. Ready your fingers.

Cooper Barton: Nice.

Laura Barton: Nice throw, kiddo.

Cooper Barton: You go.

Laura Barton: Hey, you guys want mayo or mustard, or both?

[The camera switches to Lila who then proceeds to look at Clint.]

Lila Barton: Who wants mayo on a hotdog?

Clint Barton: Probably your brothers.

[Clint looks at his wife, Laura]

Clint Barton: Uh, two mustard, please! Thanks, mama.

[Camera switches to Laura facing Nathaniel]

Laura Barton: Mayo or mustard?

Nathaniel Barton: How about ketchup?

Laura Barton: Ketchup? (Camera switches back to Clint and his daughter) I can do ketchup.

Clint Barton: Mind your elbow. (Lila releases the arrow and it hits the target directly in the bullseye.) Hahaha! Good job, Hawkeye. Go get your arrow.

Laura Barton: Hey guys! Enough practice, soup's on!

Clint Barton: Alright, we're coming; we're hungry. (He looks behind him, but there's no one there, but dust being blown away by the wind.) Lila, let's go. (He starts to look around) Lila? (He starts to move and look around and pick up the bow she had.) Honey? (He looks around to see Laura and the boys, only they are gone now. He looks seriously panicked and confused as he hurriedly drops the arrows and jogs over to where they were.) Hey, babe! Babe? Babe? Boys? Boys? Laura?

[Lightning crackles somewhere in space. Marvel Studios Opening sequence begins with Dear Mr. Fantasy playing. Only the heroes who survived the snap are shown. Scene switches to Nebula and Tony on the ship playing paper football.]

Nebula: Wrra! (Nebula, frustrated, puts her hands in a fighting stance while looking at Tony.)

Tony Stark: You don't need to do that. Because uh, you're just holding position. (Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony) Oh yeah, that was close. (Nebula once again flicks a paper football towards Tony) That's a goal. We're now one apiece.

Nebula: I would like to try again. (Nebula flicks a paper football towards Tony)

Tony Stark: We're tied up. Feel the tension? It's fun. (He poorly flicks a paper football towards Nebula) That was terrible. Now you have a chance to win. (Nebula flicks the paper football towards Tony) And you've won. Congratulations. (He reaches his hand out to shake Nebula's hand) Fair game. Good sport. (Nebula shakes his hand) Have fun?

Nebula: It was fun.

[Camera switches to see Iron Man's busted helmet. Tony Stark's hand reaches forward to turn on the helmet. We pan out to see that he's sitting on the floor of a gloomy Benatar. The weight of the recent events of Infinity War evident in Tony's posture. He taps the helmet with a sigh.]

Tony Stark: This thing on? (The helmet scans him. He leans against the wall while taking deep breaths. He looks skinnier and weak with malnutrition.) Hey, Miss Potts Pep. If you find this recording, don't post it on social media. It's gonna be a real tear-jerker. I don't know if you're ever going to see these. I don't even know if you're, if you're still, Oh god, I hope so. Today is day 21, uh 22. (Cut to him standing at a window to stare out in space, waiting for his impending doom to arrive.) You know, if it wasn't for the existential terror of staring into a void of space, I'd say I'm feeling better today. The infection's run its course, Thanks to the blue meanie back there. (Cut to a shot of Nebula sitting in the back of the Benatar.) You'd love her. Very practical. Only a tiny bit sadistic. Some fuel cells were cracked during battle, but we figured out a way to reverse the ion charge to buy ourselves about 48 hours of time. (A shot of Tony and Nebula working on the fuel cells of the Benatar.) But it's now dead in the water. We're 1000 light years from the nearest 7-11. Oxygen will run out tomorrow. And that'll be it. And Pep, I, I know I said no more surprises, but I was really hoping to pull off one last one. But it looks like, well you know what it looks like. Don't feel bad about this. I mean, if you grovel for a couple of weeks, and then move on with enormous guilt. I should probably lie down. Please know that when I drift off, I will think about you. Because it's always you.

[With that, Tony turns the helmet off. He rubs his thumb over the left eye, and then leans down, to what would be his last sleep. Nebula walks over to him, and carries him to Drax's seat, and lies him there. She walks away dejected. A vast bluish nebula illuminates the space surrounding them. Cut to a shot of Tony's face, which for the first time shows age and weakness. There is a light on his face, which grows brighter and brighter until he's forced to open his eyes. The camera pans around to the light source, which is slowly revealed to be Carol Danvers. A bathroom in the Avengers compound. We see Steve Rogers holding a blade, having just shaved off his beard. He sighs and looks into a side mirror. The mirror suddenly starts shaking, slowly at first, and then severely. Cut to the yard in the Avengers Compound, we see Steve Rogers, Natasha Romanoff, Bruce Banner, and James Rhodes walking out looking at something, the Benatar carried by Carol Danvers as she lands the spacecraft. The landing gears deploy as they touch down. The entry hatch opens, and Tony and Nebula walk out, Tony being supported by Nebula. Steve runs to Tony to help him stand up. Tony grips Steve's arm as he joins him.]

Tony Stark: Couldn't stop him.

Steve Rogers: Neither could I.

Tony Stark: I lost the kid.

Steve Rogers: Tony, we lost.

Tony Stark: Is, uh...? (He struggles to ask about Pepper.)

Pepper Potts: Oh, my God! Oh, my God! (She and Tony embrace.)

Tony Stark: It's okay.

[Rocket Raccoon sits down with Nebula and takes her hand, both silently mourning their losses. In the Avengers Compound. The heroes are sitting in a living room area. Tony is sitting at a table, getting blood for healing. A holographic casualty report lists the names and faces of those lost to the Decimation.]

James Rhodes: It's been 23 days since Thanos came to Earth.

Natasha Romanoff: World governments are in pieces. The parts that are still working are trying to take a census. And it looks like he did, he did exactly what he said he was gonna do. Thanos wiped out fifty percent, of all living creatures.

Tony Stark: Where is he now? Where?

Steve Rogers: We don't know. He just opened a portal and walked through.

[Cut to a shot of a sullen-looking Thor, sitting on a bench, seemingly deep in thought.]

Tony Stark: What's wrong with him?

Rocket: Oh, he's pissed. He thinks he failed. Which of course he did, but you know there's a lot of that's going around, ain't there?

Tony Stark: Honestly, until this exact second, I literaly thought you were a Build-A-Bear.

Rocket: Maybe I am.

Steve Rogers: We've been hunting Thanos for three weeks now. Deep Space scans, and satellites, and we got nothing. Tony, you fought him.

Tony Stark: Who told you that? (Surprised) I didn't fight him. No, he wiped my face with a planet while the Bleecker Street Magician gave away the store. That's what happened. There was no fight.

Steve Rogers: Okay.

Tony Stark: He's unbeatable.

Steve Rogers: Did he give you any clues, any coordinates, anything?

Tony Stark: Pfft! I saw this coming a few years back. I had a vision. I didn't wanna believe it. Thought I was dreaming.

Steve Rogers: Tony, I'm gonna need you to focus.

Tony Stark (starting to seethe): And I needed you. As in past tense. That trumps what you need. It's too late buddy. Sorry. You know what I need? (Tony stands, pushing things off the table with a clatter. Everyone winces at the noise.) I need to shave. And I believe I remember telling all youse -

[Tony goes for Steve. Rhodey quickly comes in front of him, trying to stop him.]

Rhodey: Tony, Tony, Tony!

Tony Stark: Alive and otherwise what we needed was a suit of armor around the world! Remember that? Whether it impacted our precious freedoms or not- that's what we needed!

Steve Rogers: Well, that didn't work out, did it?

Tony Stark: I said, "we'd lose". You said, "We'll do that together too." And guess what, Cap? We lost. And you weren't there. But that's what we do, right? Our best work after the fact? We're the Avengers, we're the Avengers. Not the Prevengers.

Rhodey: Okay.

Tony Stark: Right?

Rhodey: You made your point. Just sit down.

Tony Stark: Okay...

Rhodey: Okay?

Tony Stark: Nah, nah. Here's my point. You know what?

Rhodey: Tony, you're sick.

Tony Stark (referring to Carol): She's great, by the way.

Rhodey: Sit down. Sit.

Tony Stark: We need you. You're new blood. Bunch of tired old mules! (He walks right up to Steve's face, his voice hushing down to a venomous whisper) I got nothing for you, Cap! I got no coordinates, no clues, no strategies, no options. Zero. Zip. Nada. No trust. Liar.

[Steve looks affected by Tony's words. The old friends just gaze at each other. After a moment, Tony rips his Arc Reactor from his chest and shoves it into Steve's hand.]

Tony Stark: Here, take this. You find him, and you put that on. You hide.

[Tony falls to the ground. Steve is by his side and everyone is starting to gather.]

Steve Rogers: Tony!

Tony Stark: I'm fine. I...

[Tony falls into a heap, unconscious. It cuts to a shot of Tony on a bed, with Pepper at his side.]

Rhodey: Bruce gave him a sedative. He's gonna probably be out for the rest of the day.

Carol Danvers: You guys take care of him. And I'll bring him a Xorrian Elixir when I come back.

[Carol walks away.]

Natasha Romanoff: Where are you going?

Carol Danvers: To kill Thanos.

[Steve and Natasha share a look before walking after her.]

Natasha Romanoff: Hey, you know, we usually work as a team here, and between you and I, morale's a little fragile.

Steve Rogers: We realize up there is more your territory, but this is our fight too.

Rhodey: You even know where he is?

Carol Danvers: I know people who might.

Nebula (standing behind Carol): Don't bother. I can tell you where Thanos is. Thanos spent a long time trying to perfect me. And when he worked, he talked about his great plan. Even disassembled, I wanted to please him. I'd ask "where would we go once his plan was complete?". His answer was always the same: "To the Garden."

Rhodey: That's cute, Thanos has a retirement plan.

Steve Rogers: So where is he?

Rocket: When Thanos snapped his fingers, Earth became ground zero for a power surge of ridiculously cosmic proportions. No one's ever seen anything like it. Until two days ago. (A hologram of a planet pops up, with a shockwave visibly traversing the surface.) On this planet.

Nebula: Thanos is there.

Natasha Romanoff: He used the stones again.

Bruce Banner: Hey, hey, hey. We'd be going in short-handed, you know.

Rhodey: Look, he's still got the stones, so...

Carol Danvers: So let's get him. Use them to bring everyone back.

Rhodey: Just like that?

Steve Rogers: Yeah, just like that.

[Steve and Carol share a knowing look.]

Natasha Romanoff: Even if there's a small chance that we can undo this, I mean we owe it to everyone who's not in this room to try.

Bruce Banner: If we do this, how do we know it's gonna end any differently than it did before?

Carol Danvers: Because before, you didn't have me.

Rhodey: Hey, new girl, everyone here is about that superhero life. And if you don't mind my asking, where the hell have you been all this time?

Carol Danvers: There are a lot of other planets in the universe. And unfortunately, they didn't have you guys.

[Thor, who has been eating a snack behind all this time, stands up and walks over to Carol. She looks behind at him. He holds his hand up, and catches Stormbreaker as it flies over to him, missing Carol by inches. But Carol doesn't even flinch, instead smiling at the God of Thunder.]

Thor: I like this one. (smiles)

Steve Rogers: Let's go get this son of a bitch.

[Title Screen: Avengers: Endgame. It cuts to a shot of everyone except for Tony aboard the Benatar.]

Rocket: Okay, who here hasn't been to space?

[Nat, Cap, and Rhodey raise their hands.]

Rhodey: Why?

Rocket: You better not throw up on my ship.

Nebula: Approaching jump in 3, 2, 1!

[The ship jumps forward into a wormhole, and we see Steve holding onto his seat for dear life. A close up of his eyes show them widening slightly at the exhilaration of this new experience. The ship slows down, and the ship hovers in orbit of the planet seen in the hologram previously. Carol Danvers hovers in front of the Benatar.]

Carol Danvers: I'll head down for recon.

[A shot of the passengers inside the Benatar preparing for the impending confrontation.]

Natasha Romanoff: This is gonna work, Steve.

Steve Rogers: I know it will.

[We see Steve holding a compass with an image of Peggy Carter.]

Steve Rogers: Cause I don't know what I'm going to do if it doesn't.

[Carol Danvers approaches the Benatar.]

Carol Danvers: No satellites, no ships, no armies, no ground defenses of any kind. It's just him.

Nebula: And that's enough.

[It cuts to a shot of a scenic lush tropical fauna. It surrounds a shed on a farm. A scarecrow made of Thanos' armor is seen before we cut to a shot focusing on the burnt Infinity Gauntlet on Thanos' arm. He's walking among his crops, harvesting fruit, and putting them in a sack. He walks over to the shed, with a dragging quality to his legs, like it pains him to walk, presumably his living quarters, and tries to sit down, and we see his full face. His whole left side is burnt black with blisters; He looks ridiculously pathetic compared to when we saw him last. Suddenly, Carol Danvers flies through the roof, knocking Thanos down, and grabbing his neck. Bruce in the Hulkbuster armor bursts from the ground, and grabs Thanos' Infinity Gauntlet arm. Thor flies in and slices off the Infinity Gauntlet. Rhodey flies down with Rocket and aims guns on Thanos' head. Captain America walks in his Winter Soldier Outfit, with Natasha right behind him, staring murderously at Thanos. Rocket goes over to the sliced off Infinity Gauntlet, and kicks it over, as everyone realizes that there are no stones in it.]

Rocket: Oh no.

Steve Rogers: Where are they?

Carol Danvers: Answer the question!

Thanos: The universe required correction. After that, the stones served no purpose, beyond temptation.

Bruce Banner: You murdered trillions! (Bruce pushes him to the ground wearing Hulk Buster armor)

Thanos: You should be grateful. (Punched by Hulk Buster)

Natasha Romanoff: Where are the Stones?

Thanos: Gone. Reduced to atoms.

Bruce Banner: You used them two days ago!

Thanos: I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. (sits himself a little straighter.) I am inevitable.

Rhodey: We have to tear this place apart, he-he-he has to be lying.

Nebula: My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.

Thanos: Ah, thank you, daughter. (Nebula looks down, a little uncomfortable.) Perhaps I treated you too harshly.

[We see Thor's face filled with rage as he raises to summon Stormbreaker, and before anyone can stop him, slices Thanos' head off. Thanos' limp body falls to the floor. Nebula wipes off some of the blood spatter.]

Rochet: What, what did you do?

[Thor looks broken, realizing what he has done.]

Thor: I went for the head.

[Thor slowly walks out of the shed, no real purpose in his steps as the screen blurs to nothingness.]

Five (A pause) Years (pause) Later

[We see shots of New York City, seemingly abandoned. There are a lot of boats gathered around a dock, all abandoned. A baseball stadium comes into view, with no life present at all. The aftermath of the Decimation is evident, and Earth has not coped well. It cuts to an abandoned cafe, with a poster on the wall labeled "Where do we go, now that they're gone?". A therapy session is taking place with Steve Rogers and seven other people.]

Joe Russo: So I, uh, went on a date the other day. It's the first time in five years, you know? I'm sitting there at dinner, I didn't even know what to talk about.

Steve Rogers: What did you talk about?

Joe Russo: Same old crap, you know? How things have changed, and my job, his job, how much we miss the Mets. And then things get quiet. He cried as they were serving the salads.

Jim Starlin: What about you?

Joe Russo: I cried just before dessert. But I'm seeing him again tomorrow, so...

Steve Rogers: That's great. You did the hardest part. You took the jump, you didn't know where you were gonna come down. And that's it. That's those little brave baby steps we gotta take. To try and become whole again, try and find purpose. I went in the ice in '45 right after I met the love of my life. Woke up 70 years later. You gotta move on. Gotta to move on. The world is in our hands. It's left to us guys, and we got to do something with it. Otherwise, Thanos should have killed all of us.

[Screen Title: San Francisco. The camera pans to San Francisco Bridge, all the way to a self-storage facility with a sign saying "U-Store It, Self Storage", with its interior filled with stored stuff and junk until it spots Luis' van from "Ant-Man and the Wasp", behind a metallic fence with a label named "Lang". A rat crawls over the van's rear windshield and accidentally activates the controls for opening the Quantum Realm, haphazardly activating the Quantum Tunnel. The rear door busts open, flinging Lang outside the van.]

Scott Lang (grunts as he pushes away a cushion out of his body, and deactivates the helmet, but still grunting in pain, as he sweeps away sparks from an electrical failure out of his suit, then try to stand up.): What the hell?

[He manages to stand up, as another electrical failure sparks out of his gauntlets, and now looks around in a confused look.]

Scott Lang: Hope?

[Inside a security office, a security guard (Ken Jeong) reading a book as he looks upon his security screen, seeing something going on in one of the storage facilities. In the cameras, it shows Lang in his casual clothing, shouting, waving a sign with the word "Help" written on it. Outside the facility, he pulls out a pushcart and looks back seeing the guard giving a stern look from far. He walks around until reaching his hometown, finding a post filled with missing posters, abandoned houses, a wrecked car, nothing but desolation. He then sees a kid in a bike pass by.]

Scott Lang (yelling): Kid! Hey kid!

[The kid stops his bike as he stares back in a serious look.]

Scott Lang: What the hell happened here?

[The kid still stares at him and is almost about to tear up but immediately turns away from him and move on. Lang still gives the same confused look, as he arrives in somewhat a memorial called "The Vanished", with all the names of the people who became victims of the Decimation. As Lang arrives on one of the engraved stones, he immediately drops the handle in shock.]

Scott Lang: No. Please. Please, please. (moves on to check the other side of the engraved stone) No, no, no. No. (Lang excuses aside a young couple as he keeps on checking another engraved stone to see if his daughter's name is on one.) Excuse me, sorry. No, Cassie, no.

[The camera keeps panning and switching as Lang checks the rest of engraved stones to see if his daughter's name is in one.]

Scott Lang (in a mantra-like): Please, please, please, please. No, Cassie. (Lang looks at the engraved stone in shock, revealing his name on it.)

Scott Lang: What?

[Scott is now seen running across the memorial, then to his hometown, only to ring a doorbell at his house, bang on the door, and try opening the door, but is found locked. Then, he sees a feminine figure appear out of a hallway inside. The figure gets closer, revealing a woman in a purple sweater, with her hand pushing towards the glass door's window, and her face filled with amazement, as she unlocked the door. It was Lang's daughter, Cassie, now a grown-up teen since the last five years. Cassie, who hasn't seen him for five years, holds up his face in an emotional sight and starts to smile tearfully. Lang does the same.]

Scott Lang: Cassie?

Cassie Lang: Dad? (Both of them emotionally hug each other as both dad and daughter had reunited. Then Lang shoves her back, realizing that her daughter is now a full-grown teenager.)

Scott Lang: You're so big!

[Both dad and daughter share a hug once more. The camera cuts to a sunset in San Francisco, showing a metal face with a sign saying in its headings, "Restricted Area, Do Not Enter" with the subtext, "Authorized Personnel Only Beyond This Point, Security ID or Escort Required", then cuts to a scene inside the New Avengers facility, someone cutting the two bread with peanut butter filling into a couple of triangles, as someone else was speaking. The camera pans up to Romanoff, now having red, long hair, over-coloring her blonde streaks, hearing Rocket Raccoon out about his status so far.]

Rocket: Yeah, we boarded that highly suspect warship Danvers pinged.

[The camera cuts showing a few of the Avengers in holographic calls from the left to right, respectively: Nebula and Rocket Raccoon, Okoye, Danvers with a tomboyish haircut, and Rhodes.]

Nebula: It was an infectious garbage scowl.

Rocket: So, thanks for the hot tip. (turns to Danvers and replies back with a smirk)

Carol Danvers: Well, you were closer.

Rocket: Yeah. And now we smell like garbage.

Natasha Romanoff (turns to Okoye): You get a reading on those tremors?

Okoye: It was a mild subduction under the African plate.

Natasha Romanoff: Do we have a visual? How are we handling it?

Okoye: Nat, it's an earthquake under the ocean. We handle it by not handling it.

Natasha Romanoff (turning to Danvers): Carol, are we seeing you here next month?

Carol Danvers: Not likely.

Rocket: What, you gonna get another haircut?

Carol Danvers (irritated): Listen fur-face, I'm covering a lot of territory. The things that are happening on Earth, are happening everywhere, on thousands of planets.

Rocket (murmuring to himself): All right, all right, that's a good point. That's a good point.

Carol Danvers: So you might not see me for a long time.

Natasha Romanoff: Alright. Uh, well. This channel is always active. So, if anything goes sideways, anyone's making trouble where they shouldn't come through me.

[Okoye agrees in her language.]

Rocket: Okay.

Natasha Romanoff: Alright.

[The Avengers cut off their calls one by one...]

CAROL DANVERS: [To Rhodey] Good luck. [cuts off call]

[Except for Rhodes. Nat sighs exhausted, and sits down, as she notices Rhodes still online in the call.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Where are you?

RHODEY: Mexico. The Federales found a room full of bodies. Looks like a bunch of cartel guys. Never even had the chance to get their guns off.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: It's probably a rival gang.

RHODEY: Except it isn't. (Nat realizes something.) It's definitely Barton. What he's done here, what he's been doing for the last few years... I mean, the scene that he left... (Nat starts to show signs of sadness as she gradually tears up.) I gotta tell you, there's a part of me that doesn't even want to find him.

(In an abrupt moment of silence, she tries to chew her tears and emotional feelings as she eats a sandwich.)

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Will you find out where he's going next?

RHODEY: Nat...

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Please.

RHODEY: [reluctantly] Okay. [then Rhodes cuts off his]

[Nat starts to cry as she tries to hold back her tears miserably.]

STEVE ROGERS: You know I'd offer to cook you dinner but you seem pretty miserable already.

[Out of nowhere, Roger slumps over a bookshelf, in the same mood as he is in the therapy session, as Nat wipes off the tears off her face.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You here to do your laundry?

STEVE ROGERS: And to see a friend.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Clearly, your friend is fine.

STEVE ROGERS: You know I saw a pod of whales when I was coming up the bridge.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: In the Hudson?

STEVE ROGERS: There's fewer ships, cleaner water.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You know, if you're about to tell me to look on the bright side. Um... I'm about you to hit you in the head with a peanut butter sandwich. [jokingly smiles, as Rogers does the same]

STEVE ROGERS: Sorry. Force of habit. [Throws his jacket, then sits down on another chair, opposite Natasha.]

STEVE ROGERS: You know, I keep telling everybody they should move on and... grow. Some do. But not us.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: If I move on, who does this?

STEVE ROGERS: Maybe it doesn't need to be done.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Deep in her thoughts] I used to have nothing. And then I got this. This job... this family. And I was... I was better because of it. And even though... they're gone... I'm still trying to be better.

STEVE ROGERS: I think we both need to get a life.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling] You first.

[A camera footage pops up in front of them, showing Scott Lang with his Quantum Realm Van behind him.]

Scott Lang: Oh! Hi. Hi! Is anyone home? This is Scott Lang. We met a few years ago, at the airport? In Germany? I got really big, and I had my mask on. You wouldn't recognize me.

STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Is this an old message?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Also standing up] It's the front gate.

SCOTT LANG: Ant-Man? Ant-Man, I know you know that. I need to talk to you guys.

[Cut to Scott inside the Avengers Compound, pacing worriedly in front of Steve and Natasha.]

STEVE ROGERS: Scott. Are you okay?

SCOTT LANG: Yeah. I'm fine.

[He struggles to ask about something. He finally blurts it out.]

SCOTT LANG: Have you ever studied Quantum Physics?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Only to make conversation.

SCOTT LANG: Alright. So... five years ago, right before Thanos, I was in a place called the Quantum Realm. The Quantum Realm is like its own microscopic universe. To get in there, you have to be incredibly small. Hope, she's my... She was my... [struggling to not tell the entire truth about their relationship] She was supposed to pull me out. And then Thanos happened, and I got stuck in there.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I'm sorry. That must've been a very long five years.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but that's just it. It wasn't. For me, it was five hours.

[Steve and Nat share a quick bewildered glance.]

SCOTT LANG: See, the rules of the Quantum Realm aren't like they are up here. Everything is unpredictable. Is that anybody's sandwich? I'm starving.

[He strides over to pick up Nat's sandwich, and bites into it.]

STEVE ROGERS: Scott, what are you talking about?

SCOTT LANG: What I'm saying is, time works differently in the Quantum Realm. The only problem is right now, we don't have a way to navigate it. But what if we did? I can't stop thinking about it. What if, we could somehow control the chaos, and we could navigate it? What if there was a way to enter the Quantum Realm at a certain point in time but then exit at another point in time? Like... Like before Thanos.

STEVE ROGERS: Wait, are you talking about a time machine?

SCOTT LANG: No. No, of course not. No, not a time machine. It's more like a... Yeah, a time machine. I know it's crazy. But I can't stop thinking about it. There's gotta be some way... There's gotta be...some w... it's crazy.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Scott, I get e-mails from a raccoon, so nothing sounds crazy anymore.

SCOTT LANG: So who do we talk to about this?

[We cut to a cabin in the woods, at the bank of a lake. We see Tony Stark sitting outside what looks like a tiny shed.] TONY STARK: [Clapping his hand in a famous beat. Clap! Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap! Clap-Clap-Clap- Clap!] Chow time! [He seems to be speaking to someone unknown by the audience.] Maguna? Morgan H. Stark. You want some lunch?

MORGAN STARK: Define lunch or be disintegrated. [She puts on a silver and blue helmet similar to Iron Man's]

(A girl with long dark hair walks out in front of Tony. This is Morgan Stark, Tony and Pepper's daughter. She looks to be about 3 & 4 years of age.)

TONY STARK: Okay, You should not be wearing that, okay? That is part of a special anniversary gift I'm making for Mom. (Takes the helmet off Morgan's head. She emerges out smiling mischievously.)

MORGAN STARK: Okay.

TONY STARK: There you go. Are you thinking about lunch? I can give you a handful of crickets on a bed of lettuce.

MORGAN STARK: No.

TONY STARK: That's what you want. How did you find this?

MORGAN STARK: Garage.

TONY STARK: Really? Were you looking for it?

MORGAN STARK: No. I found it, though.

TONY STARK: You like going to the garage, huh? So does daddy. It's fine, actually. Your mom never wears anything I buy her.

(They start walking towards the house, but Tony notices a black Audi pulling coming to a stop a few meters away. Steve, Nat, and Scott get out of the car. Tony sighs. He is not looking forward to the discussion about to take place.)

SCOTT LANG: (Cut to after Scott's plan has been explained to Tony) Now, we know what it sounds like...

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, after everything you've seen, is anything really impossible?

TONY STARK: Quantum fluctuation messes with the Planck Scale, which then triggers the Deutsch Proposition. Can we agree on that?

(Scott, Steve and Nat all look puzzled. Science is barely any of their fields.)

STEVE ROGERS: (Tony giving a drink to him.) Thank you.

TONY STARK: In Layman's terms, it means you're not coming home.

SCOTT LANG: I did.

TONY STARK: No, you accidentally survived. It's a billion to one cosmic fluke. And now you wanna pull off a... What do you call it?

SCOTT LANG: (Trying to hide his pride) A time heist?

TONY STARK: Yeah, a time heist. Of course, why didn't we think of this before? Oh, because it's laughable? Because it's a pipedream?

SCOTT LANG: The Stones are in the past. We can go back and get them.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: We can snap our own fingers. We can bring everyone back.

TONY STARK: Or screw it up worse than he already has, right?

STEVE ROGERS: I don't believe we would.

TONY STARK: Gotta say, sometimes I miss that giddy optimism. However, high hopes won't help if there's no logical, tangible way for me to safely execute said time heist. I believe the most likely outcome would be our collective demise.

SCOTT LANG: Not if we strictly follow the rules of time travel. That means no talking to our past selves, no betting on sporting events -

TONY STARK: I'm gonna stop you right there, Scott. Are you seriously telling me that your plan to save the universe is based on Back To The Future?

SCOTT LANG: [embarrassed] No.

TONY STARK: Good. You had me worried there. 'Cause that'd be horse shit. That's not how quantum physics works.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Tony... We have to take a stand.

TONY STARK: We did stand. And yet, here we are.

SCOTT LANG: I know you got a lot on the line. You got a wife, a daughter. But I lost someone very important to me. A lot of people did. [His voice gets louder as he tries to sell his desperation to Tony.] And now, now we have a chance to bring her back. To bring everyone back. And you're telling me that won't even...

TONY STARK: That's right, Scott, I won't even. I got a kid.

[Morgan runs to her dad, who picks her up.]

MORGAN STARK: Mommy told me to come and save you.

TONY STARK: Good job. I'm saved. [Turning to face Cap, Nat and Scott.] I wish you'd come here to ask me something else. Anything else. Honestly, I... I missed you guys, it was... Oh, and table's set for six.

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I get it. And I'm happy for you, I really am. But this is a second chance. TONY STARK: I got my second chance right here, Cap. I can't roll the dice again. If you don't talk shop, you can stay for lunch.

[We see Cap, Nat and Scott walking back to their car outside Tony's house.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's scared.

STEVE ROGERS: He's not wrong.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah, but I mean, what are we gonna do? We need him. What, are we gonna stop?

STEVE ROGERS: No, I wanna do it right. We're gonna need a really big brain.

SCOTT LANG: (Incredulous, pointing to Tony's house) Bigger than his?

[Cut to a cafe somewhere, we see Bruce Banner, but not the same one that we remember. He looks more... Professor Smart Hulk.]

BRUCE BANNER: Come on, I feel like I'm the only one eating. [Pushing a plate forward] Try some of that. Have some eggs.

SCOTT LANG: I'm so confused.

BRUCE BANNER: [seriously] These are confusing times.

SCOTT LANG: Right. No, no, that's not what I meant.

BRUCE BANNER: [dropping the act] No, I get it. I'm kidding! I know. It's crazy. I'm wearing shirts now.

SCOTT LANG: Yeah! Wh...How? Why?

BRUCE BANNER: Five years ago, we got our asses beaten. Except it was worse for me. Because I lost twice. First, Hulk lost, then Banner lost. Then, we all lost.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: No one blamed you, Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: I did. For years, I've been treating the Hulk like he's some kind of disease, something to get rid of. But then I started looking at him as the cure. Eighteen months in a gamma lab. I put the brains and the brawn together. And now look at me. Best of both worlds...

[Three children behind Bruce walk up to him tentatively]

GIRL: Excuse me, Mr. Hulk?

BRUCE BANNER: Yes?

GIRL: Can we get a photo?

BRUCE BANNER: 100%, little person. Come on, step up. [Holding out the phone to Scott] You mind?

SCOTT LANG: Oh, yeah.

BRUCE BANNER: Thanks, [To the Children] Say "green"! [The children and Bruce say Green as Scott snaps the photo.]

BRUCE BANNER: Did you get that?

SCOTT LANG: [leaning forward to hand back the phone] Don't you wanna grab one with me? I'm Ant-Man.

SCOTT LANG: They're Hulk fans, they don't know Ant-Man. Nobody does.

BRUCE BANNER: Wait, no, no, he feels bad. No, he wants you to...he wants to...[to one of the boys] You want to take a picture with him, right? [The boy shakes his head vigorously.]

BOY: Stranger Danger.

SCOTT LANG: He's even saying no he doesn't. I get it. I don't want it either.

BRUCE BANNER: But, come on, the kid! But he...but you...

SCOTT LANG: I don't want a picture with them.

BRUCE BANNER: [To the children] He's gonna feel bad. [To Scott] Sorry. They said they'd do it.

SCOTT LANG: I don't want it anymore.

BRUCE BANNER: No, no...you feel bad.

SCOTT LANG: Just take the goddamn phone. [Maybe next time, Scott.]

GIRL: Thank you, Mr. Hulk.

BRUCE BANNER: No, it's great kids. Thank you very much. [Same time with kids] Hulk out!

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: [Awkwardly] Dab!

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce.

BRUCE BANNER: Listen to your Mom. She knows better.

STEVE ROGERS: About we were saying...

BRUCE BANNER: Right. The whole time travel do-over? Guys, it's outside my area of expertise.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Well, you pulled this off. I remember a time when that seemed pretty impossible time, too.

[The scene cuts to Tony Stark in the kitchen washing dishes after dinner. As he finishes the last of them, stumbles upon a photo of both Stark and Parker, with Parker holding his Stark Internship certificate. Tony finally knows what he's fighting for.]

[Cut to Tony talking to his computer, generating a holographic model of something he's working on.]

TONY STARK: Look at a mod inspiration, let me see what check out. So, recommend one last sim before we pack it in for the night. This time, in the shape of a mobius strip, inverted, please.

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Processing...

TONY STARK: Give me that eigenvalue. That, particle factoring, and a spectral decomp. That will take a second.

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Just a moment.

TONY STARK: And don't worry if it doesn't pan out. I'm just kinda -

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Model rendered.

[In a complete shock of amazement, the render comes back as 99.987% successful. Tony falls back, bewildered by this discovery.]

TONY STARK: Shit!

MORGAN STARK: Shit.

[Morgan, who has been hiding behind him all this time, giggles as she repeats the word Tony just uttered.]

TONY STARK: [Whispering] What are you doing up, little mess?

MORGAN STARK: Shit.

TONY STARK: No, we don't say that. Only Mommy says that word. She coined it, it belongs to her.

MORGAN STARK: Why you up?

TONY STARK: 'Cause I got some important shit going on here. [Morgan gives Tony a taste of the incredulous] What do you think? No, I got something on my mind. I got something on my mind.

MORGAN STARK: Was it Juice Pops?

TONY STARK: Sure was. That's extortion. Great minds think alike. Juice Pops, exactly was on... [Looks back to the model, Then turns back] my mind.

[In Morgan's room]

TONY STARK: You done? Yeah, now you are. [Tony wipes Morgan's lips and pushes her head onto her pillow] That face goes there.

MORGAN STARK: Tell me a story.

TONY STARK: A story... Once upon a time, Maguna went to bed. The end.

MORGAN STARK: [Giggling] That's a horrible story.

TONY STARK: Come on, that's your favorite story. I love you tons. [Kisses Morgan on the forehead.]

MORGAN STARK: I love you 3000.

TONY STARK: [Silently] Wow. [Turns off the lamp] 3000. That's crazy. [Closed the door] Go to bed. Or I'll sell all your toys. Night, night.

[Cut to the living room where Pepper is reading a book sitting on the couch. Tony paces in front of the fireplace.]

TONY STARK: Not that it's a competition, but she loves me 3000. You were somewhere on the low 6 to 900 range. [Pepper scoffs]

TONY STARK: [Absentmindedly] What are you reading?

PEPPER POTTS: Oh, it's just a book on composting.

TONY STARK: [Still absentmindedly] What's new with composting?

PEPPER POTTS: Just -

TONY STARK: I figured it out, by the way.

PEPPER POTTS: You know, just so we're talking about the same thing -

TONY STARK: Time travel.

PEPPER POTTS: [Amazed] What? Wow... That's amazing, and... terrifying.

TONY STARK: That's right.

PEPPER POTTS: We got really lucky.

TONY STARK: Yeah, I know.

PEPPER POTTS: A lot of people didn't.

TONY STARK: No, I can't help everybody.

PEPPER POTTS: It sort a seems like you can.

TONY STARK: Not if I stop. I can put a pin in it right now, and stop.

PEPPER POTTS: Tony, trying to get you to stop has been one of the few failures of my life. [Tony smiles]

TONY STARK: I sometimes feel I should put it in a locked box and drop it at the bottom of a lake... go to bed.

PEPPER POTTS: But would you be able to rest?

[Cut to a lab in the Avengers Compound, we see Bruce fiddling with buttons on a panel. Scott is in his Ant-Man costume in front of his van, with the back open to show the Quantum Tunnel. Nat and Steve are beside Bruce]

BRUCE BANNER: Okay, here we go. Time travel test number one. Scott, fire up the uhhh... the van thing.

[Scott opens the portal]

STEVE ROGERS: Breakers are set, emergency generators are on standby.

BRUCE BANNER: Good. 'Cause if we blow the grid, I don't wanna lose Tiny here in the 1950's. [Scott, Nat and Cap give Bruce a panicked look]

SCOTT LANG: Excuse me?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: He's kidding. [In a hushed tone to Bruce] You can't say things like that!

BRUCE BANNER: Just... It was a bad joke.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You were kidding, right?

BRUCE BANNER: [Whispering to Nat] I have no idea. We're talking about time travel here. Either it's all a joke, or none of it is. [Loudly and gives Scott a thumbs up] We're good! Get your helmet on, Scott. I'm gonna send you back a week, let you walk around for an hour, then bring you back in 10 seconds. Makes sense?

SCOTT LANG: Perfectly not confusing.

STEVE ROGERS: Good luck, Scott. You got this.

SCOTT LANG: You're right. I do, Captain America.

[Bruce presses a button, and Scott disappears into the Quantum Tunnel.]

BRUCE BANNER: On the count of three. 3... 2... 1!

[Bruce presses a button, and someone in the Ant-Man suit comes back. A teenager in appears out of it.]

TEEN SCOTT LANG: Uh, guys? This...this doesn't feel right.

STEVE ROGERS: What is this?

BRUCE BANNER: What's going on?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: That...who is that?

[He pushes another couple of buttons, trying to fix the problem.]

BRUCE BANNER: Hold on. [Panicking]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that Scott?

TEEN SCOTT LANG: Yes, it's Scott!

[Teen Scott gets sucked in back into the quantum tunnel, and it appears to be an old man in the Ant-Man suit.]

OLD SCOTT LANG: Ow! My back!

STEVE ROGERS: What is this?

BRUCE BANNER: Can I get a little space here.

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah yeah. Can you bring him back?

BRUCE BANNER: I'm working on it! [Tapping the side of the button pad, trying to pull back Scott]

[After a moment, another person appears in front of them. This time, it's a baby in the Ant-Man suit.]

STEVE ROGERS: It's a baby. [seriously?]

BRUCE BANNER: It's Scott.

STEVE ROGERS: As a baby!

BRUCE BANNER: He'll grow.

STEVE ROGERS: Bring Scott back!

BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Nat] When I say kill the power, kill the power.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh my god. [rapidly walk near to the generator]

BRUCE BANNER: And... Kill it!

[Nat pulls down a lever, and everything shuts down. Scott, the normal Scott, gets spewed back out again.]

SCOTT LANG: Somebody peed my pants.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh thank god.

SCOTT LANG: But I don't know if it was "baby" me or "old" me...Or just "me" me.

BRUCE BANNER: [holds up his his hands in a dramatic way] Time travel!

[Steve says nothing. He simply shakes his head and walks away]

BRUCE BANNER: What? I..I see this as an absolute win!

[We cut to see Steve sitting outside the Avengers Compound, staring at the floor, deep in thought. He looks beat, the only possibility of victory now not an opportunity. He looks up as a deafening noise breaks the silence in the distance. As he looks, we see an Audi R8 speeding towards the entrance. The car pulls over to Cap, but goes a bit too far, then reverses to Cap. We see Tony Stark roll down the window and look at Cap.]

TONY STARK: Why the long face? Let me guess: He turned into a baby.

STEVE ROGERS: Among other things, yeah. What are you doing here?

[He gets out of the car, and walks around to the back.]

TONY STARK: [Ignoring Steve's question] That's the EPR Paradox. Instead of pushing Lang through time, you might've wound up pushing time through Lang. It's tricky. Dangerous. Somebody should've cautioned you against it.

STEVE ROGERS: You did.

TONY STARK: Oh, did I? [acting like he did not; there's the Tony we know] Thank God I'm here. Regardless, I fixed it. [He holds up his right hand, with a device on it] A fully functioning Time-Space GPS. I just want peace. [Makes peace sign with his fingers] Turns out, resentment is corrosive, and I hate it.

STEVE ROGERS: Me too.

TONY STARK: We got a shot at getting these stones, but I gotta tell you my priorities: Bring back what we lost? I hope, yes. Keep what I got? I have to, at all costs. And... maybe not die trying will be nice.

STEVE ROGERS: Sounds like a deal. [Steve reaches out his hand to shake in the deal, in which Tony replies in the same way.]

[Tony reaches back into his trunk to pull something else out, Captain America's Shield. He makes to give it to Steve, who hesitates.]

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, I dont know...

TONY STARK: Why? He made it for you. [referring to Howard Stark] Plus, honestly I have to get it out of the garage before Morgan takes it sledding.

[Steve fits his arm into the shield.]

STEVE ROGERS: Thank you, Tony.

TONY STARK: Will you keep that a little quiet? Didn't bring one for the whole team. [Hesitates] ...We are getting the whole team, yeah?

STEVE ROGERS: We're working on that right now.

[Cut to the Benatar landing in the yard of the Avenger's Compound. Scott is sitting having a Taco and some Nachos at a bench, and everything falls out of the taco as the Benatar lands. Nebula and Rocket walk out of the ship, and past Scott.]

ROCKET: Hey, humie! Where's Big Green?

SCOTT LANG: Uh, Kitchen, I think. [To himself as he sees Nebula] That's awesome.

NEBULA: [into an earpiece] Rhodey, careful on re-entry. There's an idiot on the landing zone.

[She walks away. Moments later, just as Scott is getting back to his senses, Rhodey lands right in front of him without warning. This time Scott is so surprised, he drops the whole taco.]

SCOTT LANG: Oh, God!

RHODEY: What's up, regular sized man?

[As Rhodey walks away, Bruce walks out of the Compound. Seeing that Scott dropped his lunch, he hands two tacos from his own lunch to Scott. Scott takes it while giving Bruce a puzzling look at this act of kindness.]

[Song "My Supersonic Ship" plays in the background. Cut to Bruce sitting at the back of a Utility car as they traverse the green countryside of Norway. They pass a sign labelled "WELCOME TO NEW ASGARD, PLEASE DRIVE SLOWLY.". They stop at a small town on a port. Bruce and Rocket get out of the car, and look around at the remaining Asgardians, living like normal humans at a port.]

ROCKET: Kind of a step down from a golden palace and magic hammers and whatnot.

BRUCE BANNER: Hey, have a little compassion, pal. First they've lost Asgard, then half the people. They're probably just happy to have a home. [Bruce spots Valkyrie looking over at him, and heads over to her.]

VALKYRIE: You shouldn't have come!

BRUCE BANNER: Ah, Valkyrie! Great to see you, Angry Girl.

VALKYRIE: [Noticing Bruce's change of appearance] I think I liked you better either of the other ways.

BRUCE BANNER: [motioning to Rocket] This is Rocket.

ROCKET: How you doin'?

VALKYRIE: [Eyeing Rocket] He won't see you.

BRUCE BANNER: That bad, huh?

VALKYRIE: We only see him once a month, when he comes for... [looking over to a pile of kegs of stout and other beer on the side] ... supplies.

BRUCE BANNER: It's that bad.

VALKYRIE: Yeah.

[Cut to Rocket opening a door, and him and Bruce walking through it.]

ROCKET: [Grimacing at the smell] What the... Woo! Something died in here.

BRUCE BANNER: Hello? Thor?

THOR: [From another room.] Are you here about the cable?

[He walks into view, and the audience's jaw drops. Thor, who is shirtless, has definitely put on more than a couple of pounds since we saw him last.]

THOR: The Cinemax ran out about two weeks ago, and the sports were all kind of fuzzy. [He grabs a beer]

BRUCE BANNER: Thor?

THOR: [He notices Bruce and Rocket standing there. He cracks into joy.] BOYS! Oh my God! Its so to see you! [To Rocket, trying to hug him] Come here, you little rascal! [growling]

ROCKET: No, I'm good. I'm good. That's not necessary.

THOR: Hulk, you know my friends, Miek, Korg, right?

[We see Miek and Korg sitting on a couch, PlayStation controller in hand, playing Fortnite and eating chips.]

KORG: Hey boys!

BRUCE BANNER: Hey guys, long time no see.

KORG: Beer's on the bucket. Feel free to log on to the Wi-Fi. No password, obviously. [He goes back to his game.] Thor, he's back. The kid on the TV that called me a dickhead again.

THOR: NoobMaster.

KORG: Yeah, NoobMaster69 called me a dickhead.

[Thor walks over to Korg, takes his headphones, and speaks into the mic.]

THOR: NoobMaster. Hey, it's Thor again. You know, the God of Thunder? Listen, buddy. If you don't log off this game immediately, I'm gonna fly over to your house, come down to that basement you're hiding in, rip off your arms and SHOVE THEM UP YOUR BUTT! Oh, that's right, go cry to your father, you little weasel!

KORG: [Thor brings his headphones back] Thank you, Thor.

THOR: Let me know if he bothers you again, okay?

KORG: Thank you very much. I will.

THOR: So you guys want a drink? What are you drinking? We have beer, tequila, all sorts of things.

[Thor uses Stormbreaker to open a bottle of beer and starts drinking. Bruce walks to him and places a hand on his shoulder]

BRUCE BANNER: Buddy, you all right?

THOR: Yes, I'm fine! Why, don't I look all right?

ROCKET: [Concerned] You look like melted ice cream.

THOR: [Laughs] So, what's up?

BRUCE BANNER: We need your help. There might be a chance we could fix everything.

THOR: What, like the cable? [burps] Cause that's been driving me bananas for weeks.

BRUCE BANNER: Like Thanos.

[Thor's smile slowly disappears. He puts a shaky hand on Bruce's shoulder and points at him.]

THOR: Don't say that name.

[Korg stands up and takes off his headphones]

KORG: Um, yeah. We don't actually say that name in here.

BRUCE BANNER: [quietly] Please take your hand off me. [He brushes away Thor's hand] Now, I know that... guy might scare you.

THOR: Why would I be? Why would, why would I be scared of that guy? I'm the one who killed that guy, remember? Anyone else here killed that guy? Nope. Didn't think so. Korg, why don't you, tell everybody who chopped Thanos' big head off.

[Thor walks off screen]

KORG: Umm... Stormbreaker?

THOR: Now, who's swingin' Stormbreaker?

BRUCE BANNER: I get it. You're in a rough spot, okay? I've been there myself. You wanna know who helped me out of it?

THOR: I don't know. Is it... Natasha?

BRUCE BANNER: It was you. You helped me.

THOR: [walks over and looks out the window and points, still holding his beer] Why don't you ask the, Asgardians down there, how much my help was worth. [he drops onto the sofa] The ones that are left, anyway.

BRUCE BANNER: I think we can bring them back.

THOR: Stop. stop, okay? [opens a packet on M&Ms] I know you think I'm down here wallowing in my own self-pity, waiting to be rescued and and saved. But I'm fine, okay? We're fine, aren't we? [The camera cuts to Korg and Miek eating pizza and playing once more]

KORG: Nah, all good here, mate.

[Cuts back to Thor]

THOR: So, whatever it is that you're offering, we're not into it, don't care, couldn't care less. Goodbye.

BRUCE BANNER: [from offscreen] We need you, pal.

[Thor shakes his head and ignores Bruce.]

ROCKET: [Crossing his arms] There's beer on the ship.

THOR: [pauses, but doesn't look up then puts the bottle down] What kind?

[SCREEN TITLE: TOKYO]

[After seeing a Quinjet flown to the capital, the scene cuts to a nightclub in the city of Tokyo, as the entertainment still intact, loads of dead bodies of yakuza members are seen as a hooded figure throws a shuriken at another yakuza member firing at him. They are shouting something in Japanese, as two more men come out of nowhere and draw out their UZIs.]

THUG #1: あいつだ! アキヒコさんを！(Romanized: Aitsu da! Akihiko-san wo!) (Translated: It's him! He's after Akihiko!)

[Both thugs fire their SMGs as both got slain by a shuriken. A yakuza member wielding a katana charges at him in the stairs, but is immediately overthrown and slain by the Ronin. Ronin then fights another sword-wielding thug, which is thrown outside the glass, killing him. The camera passes through two more buildings as the fighting ensues with different screams, shouts, more havoc inside, and gunfire. A man in a dark raincoat jumps through the glass window, with the Ronin doing the same, as both of them lands in a dark alleyway. The man in the raincoat turns to the Ronin, who just landed after him. It was Akihiko, the leader of a yakuza gang, whose head being hunted by the Ronin himself.]

AKIHIKO: てめえ なぜこんなことをする? 俺たちてめえになにもしてねぇだろ！(Romanized: Temē naze konna koto wo suru? Oretachi temē ni nani mo shitenē daro!) (English: Why are you doing this? We never did anything to you!)

RONIN: [As he draws out his katana and reversibly wields it.]地球の半分 サノスにやられた... お前はなぜ無事なの…(Romanized: Chikyū no hanbun sanosu ni yarareta... Omae wa naze buji nano...) (English: You survived... Half of the planet didn't. They got Thanos... you get me.)

[Both sides engaged in combat as Ronin pierces his stomach, but doing only minor damage to him.]

RONIN: [Also in Japanese] お前はもう十分殺しただろ(Romanized:Omae mo jūbun korshita daro) You're done hurting people.

AKIHIKO: [Japanese]俺らがだと? 気でも狂ったか! (Orera ga dato? Ki demo kurutta ka!) [he gestures to all the scattered bodies of his henchmen and chuckles] (English: WE hurt people? You're crazy!)

[Akihiko charges, which Ronin immediately blocks. Both clang swords for two seconds, seeming that the yakuza leader has the upper hand, but Ronin punches him in the face, and sword-points him to his throat, in which Akihiko is temporarily petrified.]

[He lowers down his sword as if he is about to surrender, but charges again at Ronin. Both swords clashed as Ronin slices his stomach, losing stamina, but gaining more strength from his rage.]

AKIHIKO: [in a Gatotsu-like sword stance] 死ね! (Romanized: Shine!) (English: DIE!)

[They both draw their katanas and the sword-fight continues. Ronin is clearly a better fighter, but Akihiko is also quite experienced. They clang swords, and for a second, it looks like Akihiko has the upper hand swinging at Ronin's neck. Ronin, however, ducks and slides under the katana, and slices Akihiko in the stomach as he slides past. Akihiko, now fatally injured, drops his katana.]

AKIHIKO: 待て! 助けてくれ! お前に何でもやる! 何が欲しい? (Romanized: Mate! Tasukete kure! Omae ni nan demo yaru! Nani ga hosī? (English: Wait! Help me! I'll give you anything! What do you want?)

RONIN: [Raising his katana, in English] What I want... You can't give me.

[He thrusts the blade downwards into Akihiko's stomach. The body of the Japanese falls to the ground. Ronin grabs the sword, and wipes it on his gauntlet, ridding it of the blood of Akihiko. He notices someone behind him, and grabs his mask, and slides it off his head, revealing himself as Clint Barton, who has gone on a rampage since the decimation. He turns around and looks at Nat, who is standing behind him, holding an umbrella, and in casual clothes.]

CLINT BARTON: You shouldn't be here.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Neither should you.

CLINT BARTON: I've got a job to do.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is that what you're calling this? Killing all these people isn't gonna bring your family back.

[Clint starts to look emotional, on the verge of crying.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: We found something. A chance, maybe...

CLINT BARTON: [Now openly crying] Don't...

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Don't what?

CLINT BARTON: ...don't give me hope.

NATASHA: I'm sorry I couldn't give it to you sooner.

[We cut to the Avenger's Compound, where we see Thor in a hoodie, drinking a beer and walking through the compound's Testing Chamber. Tony is also there, walking in from behind Thor.]

TONY STARK: [To Thor] Drifting left. On the side there, Lebowski. [To Rocket, who's working on something underneath a glass platform] Ratchet, How's it going?

ROCKET: It's Rocket. Take it easy. You're only a genius on Earth, pal.

[Cut to a side room, where we see Scott, Bruce, Nebula and Rhodey talking. Scott is in a white and red suit, similar to the Ant-Man suit.]

RHODEY: Time travel suit? Not bad.

SCOTT LANG: [Response to Hulk touching the suit and something red in a glass tube] Hey, hey, hey! Easy, easy!

BRUCE BANNER: I'm being very careful.

SCOTT LANG: No, you're being very Hulky.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm being careful.

SCOTT LANG: [Holding up the red glass bottle] These are Pym Particles, alright? And ever since Hank Pym got snapped out of existence, this is it. This is what we have. We're not making any more.

RHODEY: Scott, calm down.

SCOTT LANG: Sorry. We've got enough for one round trip each. That's it. No do-overs. Plus two test runs. [He accidentally presses a button, and shrinks, and then grows back to his normal size.] One test run.

[Cut to the testing chamber, where we see Steve, Nat, Tony, Scott, Bruce, Rhodey and Nebula standing at a control panel, presumably controlling the glass platform.]

SCOTT LANG: All right. I'm not ready for this.

CLINT BARTON: I'm game. I'll do it.

[Clint walks in wearing the suit Scott was moments before, the Quantum Suit.]

BRUCE BANNER: Clint, now you're gonna feel a little discombobulated from the chronoshift. Don't worry about it.

[Clint taking position on the platform]

RHODEY: Wai-Wait a second, let me ask you something. If we can do this, you know, go back in time, why don't we just find baby Thanos, you know, and... [he makes a hand gesture suggesting that they strangle baby Thanos with a rope.]

BRUCE BANNER: [Disgusted] First of all, that's horrible...

RHODEY: [In a tone that says it's what we're all thinking.] It's Thanos.

BRUCE BANNER: ...And secondly, time doesn't work that way. Changing the past doesn't change the future.

SCOTT LANG: Look, we go back, we get the stones before Thanos gets them... Thanos doesn't have the stones. Problem solved.

CLINT BARTON: Bingo.

NEBULA: That's not how it works.

CLINT BARTON: Well, that's what I heard.

BRUCE BANNER: What? By who? Who told you that?

RHODEY: [counting with his fingers] Star Trek, Terminator, TimeCop, Time After Time -

SCOTT LANG: Quantum Leap -

RHODEY: A Wrinkle in Time, Somewhere in Time -

SCOTT LANG: Hot Tub Time Machine -

RHODEY: Hot Tub Time Machine. Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. Basically, any movie that deals with time travel.

SCOTT LANG: Die Hard? No, it's not one...

RHODEY: This is known.

BRUCE BANNER: I don't know why everyone believes that, but that isn't true. Think about it: If you travel to the past, that past becomes your future. And your former present becomes the past. Which can't now be changed by your new future...

NEBULA: Exactly.

SCOTT LANG: So... Back To The Future's a bunch of bullshit?

BRUCE BANNER: [Turning to Clint] Alright, Clint. We're going in 3... 2... 1!

[A helmet similar to Ant-Man's but white and more visible face pops on Clint's head, and he goes quantum. Clint flies through the quantum realm and into an opening. He grows back to normal size, but he's at a different place, and seemingly, time.]

[Clint look around his family home, which unlike at the start of the movie, looks a lot more alive. The helmet pops off of Clint's head, and he looks around bewildered. He sees a baseball glove on the ground, presumably belonging to one of his sons, and picks it up. We hear a noise from inside the house, someone who Clint hasn't seen for five years.]

LILA BARTON: [offscreen] Cooper? Where are my headphones?

CLINT BARTON: [murmuring] Lila? [The device on his hand starts beeping, signalling the end of this visit] Lila! [He dives for the door, but only manages to open it before he shrinks back to go back to the future.]

[We hear footsteps coming towards where Clint has just disappeared, and we see Lila coming down the stairs in Avril Lavigne-like clothing, looking around, puzzled]

LILA BARTON: Yeah, Dad? [She looks around] Dad?

[Lila goes back upstairs, deciding that it was just nothing]

[Cut to the Avengers Compound, we see Clint rematerialise on the glass platform, breathing heavily and sitting on the platform.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Hey, hey. Look at me. You okay?

CLINT BARTON: [Holding up the baseball glove and throw it to Stark] Yeah, it worked. It worked.

[Scene cuts to the Avengers in a room with some hologram displays, showcasing each of the six Infinity Stones, sitting around a table. Tony, Steve and Bruce are pacing at the front, clearly leading the planning of the mission.]

STEVE ROGERS: Okay, so the "how" works. Now we gotta figure out the when and the where. Almost all of us has had an encounter with at least one of the six Infinity Stones.

TONY STARK: Well I'd substitute the word encounter for damn well near been killed by one of the six Infinity Stones.

SCOTT LANG: I haven't, I don't even know what the hell you're all talking about.

BRUCE BANNER: Regardless, we only have enough Pym Particles for one round trip each, and these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.

TONY STARK: Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.

CLINT BARTON: Which means we have to pick our targets.

TONY STARK: Correct.

STEVE ROGERS: Let's start with the Aether. Thor, what do you know?

[We see Thor sitting on a chair with his sunglasses on. It is impossible to tell whether he is awake or asleep.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Is he asleep?

RHODEY: No, I'm pretty sure he's dead.

[Thor wakes up]

THOR: Where to start? Umm... The Aether, first, is not a stone, someone called it a stone before. It's more of a... an angry sludge thing, so... someones gonna need to amend that. Here's an interesting story though, many years ago... My grandfather had to hide the stones from the Dark Elves... [He wiggles his fingers to imitate a spooky ghost] Wooooh, scary beings. So Jane, [An image of Jane Foster pops up on the screen] Oh, there she is. That's Jane... She's... an old flame of mine... She... she stuck her hand inside a rock this one time... and then the Aether stuck itself inside her... And, she became very, very sick. So I had to take her to Asgard, which is where I'm from. And we had to try and fix her. We were dating at the time, you see. I got to introduce her to my Mother... who's dead, [Thor starts to look broken, and seems on the verge of tears] and oh you know, Jane and I aren't even dating anymore, these things happen though you know, nothing last forever, [Tony starts to push him back to his chair] I'm not done yet, the only thing permanent in life is impermanence.

TONY STARK: Awesome. Eggs? Breakfast?

THOR: I'd like a Bloody Mary, thank you.

[Cut to the Avengers sitting around a table, eating a meal, and Rocket is pacing on the table in front of everyone.]

ROCKET: Quill said he stole the Power Stone from Morag.

SCOTT LANG: Is that a person?

ROCKET: Morag's a planet. Quill was a person.

SCOTT LANG: A planet? Like in outer space?

ROCKET: Oh, look. It's like a little puppy, all happy and everything. [Imitating talking to a puppy] Do you wanna go to space? You wanna go to space, puppy? I'll get you to space.

[Cut to everyone facing Nebula in the planning room, and Nat writing notes for their plan.]

NEBULA: Thanos found the Soul Stone on Vormir.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [In a business-like tone] What is Vormir?

NEBULA: A dominion of death, at the very center of Celestial existence. It's where... Thanos murdered my sister.

[Nat looks up, and an awkward silence falls upon the room. She writes what Nebula has just said, and Scott makes to break the awkward moment.]

SCOTT LANG: Not it.

[We see Tony and Nat lying on a table surrounded by papers, and Bruce lying down on the floor. The Time Stone pops up on the display.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: That Time Stone guy...

BRUCE BANNER: Doctor Strange.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah, what kind of doctor was he?

TONY STARK: Ear-nose-throat meets rabbit from a hat.

BRUCE BANNER: Nice place in the village, though.

TONY STARK: Yeah. Sullivan Street.

BRUCE BANNER: Hmm... Bleecker.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Wait, he lived in New York?

TONY STARK: No. He lived in Toronto. Were you even paying attention?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, if you pick the right year, there are three stones in New York.

BRUCE BANNER: [Sitting up in surprise] Shut the front door.

[Shot cuts to the holograms displaying the different location, the Soul and Power Stones in space in 2014. the Reality Stone in Asgard, 2013; and the Space, Mind, and Time Stones in New York City, 2012]

STEVE ROGERS: All right. We have a plan. Six Stones, three teams. One shot.

[He and the other Avengers walk up and look at the screens determinedly. The shot cuts to the Avengers walking in a file to the Quantum Time machine, wearing the Quantum Suits, albeit with some minor differences for different people. Rhodey has a bulkier repaint of the War machine armour.]

STEVE ROGERS: Five years ago, we lost. All of us. We lost friends... We lost family... We lost a part of ourselves. Today, we have a chance to take it all back. You know your teams, you know your missions. Get the stones, get them back. One round trip each. No mistakes. No do-overs. Most of us are going somewhere we know. But it doesn't mean we should know what to expect. Be careful. Look out for each other. This is the fight of our lives. And we're gonna win. [Tony gives Steve a look] Whatever it takes. Good luck.

ROCKET:[Refers to Steve's speaking] He's pretty good at that.

SCOTT LANG: Right? [Looks very excited]

TONY STARK: All right. You heard the man. Stroke those keys, jolly green.

BRUCE BANNER: Tractors engaged.

ROCKET: [Addressing the shrunk Benatar in Clint's hand] You promise to bring that back in one piece, right?

CLINT BARTON: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. I'll do my best.

ROCKET: As promises go, that was pretty lame.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Smiling excitedly] See you in a minute.

[They all shrink and enter the Quantum Realm, and they all split at different intervals, going to a different place at a different time in history.]

[The First Group which has Tony, Steve, Bruce, & Scott; travels to New York in 2012. A previous stock shot of the Chitauri snarling and the iconic circle take around our six Original Avengers assembling before panning over to a side street where Scott, Steve, Banner and Tony materialise.]

STEVE ROGERS: All right, we all have our assignments. Two Stones uptown, one Stone, down. Stay low. Keep an eye on the clock.

[2012 Hulk passes by them, smashing everything in his way. Bruce puts his hand on his face, embarrassed.] STEVE ROGERS: Feel free to smash a few things along the way.

BRUCE BANNER: I think it's gratuitous, but whatever.

[Present Bruce pretends to smash things in a sarcastic way. He tears his shirt off, and walks over to a car. He lightly punches the car, making a small dent, all the while making growling noises. He picks up a motorbike and throws it at a wall, wincing as it hits the wall.]

[Shot cuts to the Roof of the Sanctum Sanctorum where 2012 The Ancient One protects it. Bruce tries to enter through the roof before noticing her.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'd be careful going that way. We just had the floors waxed.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm looking for Doctor Strange.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You're about... five years too early. Stephen Strange is currently performing surgery about twenty blocks that way. What do you want from him?

BRUCE BANNER: That, actually.

[He points towards the Eye of Agamotto where the Time Stone is kept. The Ancient One (2012) looks at it]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Ah! I'm afraid not.

BRUCE BANNER: Sorry, but I wasn't asking.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): You don't wanna do this.

BRUCE BANNER: Ah, you're right, I don't. [He makes a grab at the Eye of Agamotto] But I need that stone, and I don't have time to beat it-

[The Ancient One (2012) pushes Bruce's astral form out of his body. Bruce who's is now in astral form looks at The Ancient One horrified.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Let's start over, shall we?

[Cut to an aerial shot of Asgard in 2013.Then to the prison in Asgard, where we see the Loki from The Dark World, sitting in his cell. Without him noticing, Rocket and Thor creep by, past the cell. They stop at a pillar a few metres away room of where Jane Foster is]

THOR: That's Jane.

ROCKET: All right. Here's the deal, Tubby: You're gonna charm her and I'm gonna poke her with this thing, [He holds up a device.] and extract the Reality Stone and get gone, lickety-split.

THOR: I'll be right back, okay? There's a wine cellar, that's just down there. My father used to have this huge barrel of Aakonian ale. I'll see if the scullery has a couple of to-go cups...

ROCKET: Hey! Hey! Aren't you drunk enough already?

[A door opens, Thor and Rocket both try to hide. We then see ladies along with Frigga (2013) walking. Thor sees his mother.]

ROCKET: Who's the fancy broad?

THOR: It's my Mother. She dies today.

ROCKET: Oh. That's today?

THOR: I can't do this. I can't do this. I shouldn't be here. I shouldn't have come.This was a bad idea.

ROCKET: Come here. [Standing in front of him]

THOR: No, no, no. I think I'm having...I'm having a panic attack. I shouldn't be here...this is...this is a bad-

ROCKET: Come here. Right here.

[Rocket slaps Thor in the face.]

ROCKET: You think you're the only one who lost people? What do you think we're doing here? I lost the only family I ever had. Quill, Groot, Drax, the chick with the antenna, all gone. Now, I get you miss your Mom. But she's gone. Really gone. And there are plenty of people who are only kinda gone. But you can help them. So is it too much to ask that you brush the crumbs outta your beard, make schmoopy talk to Pretty Pants, and when she's not looking, suck out the Infinity Stone and help me get my family back?

THOR: Okay.

ROCKET: Are you crying?

THOR: No...Yes!

ROCKET: Get it together! You can do this. You can do this. All right?

THOR: Yes, I can.

ROCKET: Good.

THOR: I can do this. I can do it, I can't do this.

[Thor runs away.]

ROCKET: Alright, Heartbreaker. She's alone. This is our shot. [He turns back to where Thor was moments ago] Thor? Thor! Aaagh!!!

[Cut to Morag in 2014, where we see Rhodey getting off the Benatar as it lands.]

RHODEY: Alright. Bring it down low. Right on that line. That's it. Down, down.

CLINT BARTON: Hey, can we hurry it up?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Guys, chop-chop. Come on. We're on a clock.

[Nebula walks out of the ship, apparently having directed it to its next destination.

RHODEY: All that, is really helpful. [Hugging Natasha] Take care, okay?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Yeah.

RHODEY: Take that stone and come back. No messing around.

CLINT BARTON: [To Rhodey] Hey. You got this.

RHODEY: Let's get it done. Yes, sir.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: [Walking with Clint back into the ship] See you back.

RHODEY: You guys watch each other's six.

[Clint and Nat look back and just smile.]

CLINT BARTON: Yeah.

[They walk back into the ship, and the hatch closes. The ship takes off and speeds out of the atmosphere of Morag.]

NEBULA: The coordinates for Vormir are laid in. All they have to do is not fall out.

[In the Benatar, Clint and Nat are sitting at the front of the ship. The ship takes a jump through space and speeds up tremendously. Nat and Clint look at each other.]

CLINT BARTON: It's a long way from Budapest.

[Natasha just laughs. Back to Morag, where Rhodey and Nebula are standing where we left them.]

RHODEY: Okay, so, uhh... We just wait around for this Quill guy to show up and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?

NEBULA: [Looking around] Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.

RHODEY: Wait a minute, what are you talking about right now? Who else is looking for these stones?

NEBULA: My father, my sister... and me.

RHODEY: And you? Where are you right now?

[Cuts to a scene of Gamora (2014) and Nebula (2014) fighting some Korbinite soldiers.]

GAMORA (2014): [Helping Nebula up] You're welcome.

NEBULA (2014): I didn't ask for your help.

GAMORA (2014): And yet, you always need it. [Nebula (2014) laughs and Gamora's hand.] Get up. Father wants us back on the ship.

NEBULA (2014): Why?

GAMORA (2014): He's found an Infinity Stone.

NEBULA (2014): Where?

GAMORA (2014): On a planet called Morag.

NEBULA (2014): Father's plan is finally in motion.

GAMORA (2014): One stone isn't six, Nebula.

NEBULA (2014): It’s a start.

GAMORA (2014): If he gets all of them...

[Thanos (2014) arrives, honking badass double-bladed sword in tow and healthy coating blood of his armour.]

THANOS (2014): Ronan's located the Power Stone. I'm dispatching you to his ship.

GAMORA (2014): He won't like that.

THANOS (2014): His alternative is death, then. [Thanos wipes his double-bladed sword] Ronan's obsession clouds his judgement.

NEBULA (2014): We will not fail you, Father.

[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]

THANOS (2014): No, you won't.

NEBULA (2014): I swear...I will make you proud.

[Nebula (2014) is suddenly in pain and opens up future Nebula's memories.]

RHODEY (Memory): We just, wait around for this Quill guy to show up, and then he leads us to the Power Stone, is that it?

NEBULA (Memory): Let's take cover. We're not the only ones in 2014 looking for the stones.

[Nebula (2014) shuts off the memory]

GAMORA (2014): Who was that?

NEBULA (2014): I don't know...My head is splitting...I don't know...

GAMORA (2014): Her synaptic drive was probably damaged in battle.

[Thanos walks towards Nebula and brings his blade to her throat.]

THANOS (2014): Shhh... (pointing to Nebula) Bring her to my ship.

[Cut to present Tony Stark flying around Stark Tower in the Mark 85. He scans the interior of the tower, and sees the original Avengers apprehending Loki, the backside of the iconic shot of Hawkeye pointing the bow at Loki's face while the Avengers surround him.]

TONY STARK: Got to hustle, Cap. Things look like they're just about wrapped up here. [Cut to Steve in Stark Tower, walking towards the elevator.]

STEVE ROGERS: Got it. I'm approaching the elevator now.

LOKI (2012): If it's all the same to you... I'll have that drink now.

TONY STARK (2012): All right, get him on his feet. We can all stand around posing up a storm later. By the way, feel free to clean up.

TONY STARK: Uh, Mr. Rogers. I almost forgot that that suit [A shot of Cap walking around in his 2012 suit] did nothing for your ass.

STEVE ROGERS: No one asked you to look, Tony.

TONY STARK: [whispers] It's ridiculous.

SCOTT LANG: I think you look great, Cap. As far as I'm concerned, that's America's ass. [Does a patriotic salute.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): Who gets the, uh, magic wand?

TONY STARK (2012): STRIKE team's coming to secure it.

[A Hydra team including Rumlow and Sitwell enter, known at this time as a part of SHIELD.]

SITWELL (2012): We can take that [Taking Loki's Scepter from 2012 Natasha] off your hands.

NATASHA ROMANOFF (2012): By all means. Careful with that thing.

CLINT BARTON (2012): Unless you want your mind erased. And not in a fun way.

SITWELL (2012): We promise to be careful.

SCOTT LANG: Who are these guys?

TONY STARK: They are SHIELD...Well, actually Hydra. But, we didn't know that yet.

SCOTT LANG: Seriously, you didn't? I mean...they look like bad guys.

TONY STARK: You're small, but you're talking loud.

STEVE ROGERS (2012): On my way down to coordinate search and rescue.

LOKI (2012): [Transforming into Steve for a second in imitation] On my way down to coordinate search and rescue! [Transforming back] I mean, honestly! How do you think you'll be...

THOR (2012): [Slapping on a device on Loki's mouth to make him quiet] Shut up.

TONY STARK: All right, you're up, little buddy. [Looking at the briefcase with the Tesseract] There's our stone.

SCOTT LANG: [Lying down on Tony's shoulder] Alright. Flick me.

[Tony flicks Scott onto his 2012 self, right into his beard. 2012 Tony then scratches his beard, dropping present Scott onto 2012 Tony's reactor.]

[All of the 2012 Avengers get in an elevator. Hulk makes to follow, but finds the elevator full.]

HULK (2012): Move.

THOR (2012): Whoa!

TONY STARK (2012): Whoa, whoa. Hey! Buddy. What do you think? Maximum occupancy has been reached.

THOR (2012): Take the stairs.

TONY STARK (2012): Yeah. [Hulk draws his fist back right as the elevator door closes] Stop. Stop!

[He follows through with the punch, making a dent in the wall right where the door was.]

HULK (2012): [Pissed] Take the stairs! Hate the stairs!

TONY STARK: All right, Cap. I got our scepter in the elevator just passing the 80th floor.

STEVE ROGERS: On it. Head to the lobby.

TONY STARK: Alright. I'll see you there.

[scene cuts to HYDRA agents in the elevator]

SITWELL (2012): Evidence secure. We're en route to Dr. List. No. No hitches at all, Mr. Secretary.

[Elevator opens and HYDRA agents sees Steve. Steve walks in and hits the button to continue down.]

SITWELL (2012): Captain. I thought you were coordinating search and rescue?

STEVE ROGERS: Change of plans.

RUMLOW (2012): Hey, Cap.

STEVE ROGERS: Rumlow. [everyone starts getting suspicious and has their guard up] I just got a call from the Secretary. I'm gonna be running point on the scepter.

SITWELL (2012): Sir? I don't understand.

STEVE ROGERS: We got word there may be an attempt to steal it.

RUMLOW (2012): Sorry, Cap. I can't give you the scepter.

SITWELL (2012): I'm gonna have to call the Director.

STEVE ROGERS: That's okay. Trust me. [Steve leans over to Sitwell's ear.] Hail Hydra.

[Everyone is surprised, Steve walks out of the elevator with the scepter and a smile. Cut to the building's stairwell. The Hulk looks down at the many stairs below him.]

HULK (2012): [Angrily] So many stairs!

[Cut to the lobby. The 2012 Avengers start to make their way out of the building. Tony and Scott eye them undercover.]

TONY STARK: Thumbelina, do you copy? I've got eyes on the prize. It's go-time.

SCOTT LANG: Bombs away. [Sliding down to Tony's Arc Reactor] Is... is that Axe body spray?

TONY STARK: Yeah, I had a can just for emergencies. Relax. Can we focus, please?

SCOTT LANG: I'm going inside you. Now.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): May I ask you where you're going?

THOR (2012): To lunch and then Asgard. I'm sorry, you are?

TONY STARK (2012): Alexander Pierce. He's the man, one of the folks behind Nick Fury.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): My friends call me Mr. Secretary. I'm gonna have to ask you to turn that prisoner over to me.

THOR (2012): Loki will be answering to Odin himself.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Oh, he's gonna answer to us. Odin can have what's left. And I'm gonna need that case, that's been SHIELD property for over 70 years.

HYDRA AGENT: Hand over the case, Stark.

TONY STARK: [To present Scott through radio as he inhales sharply] All right, move it, Stuart Little. Things are getting dicey up here. Let's go.

TONY STARK(2012): I'm not gonna argue who's got the higher authority here, all right?

SCOTT LANG: You promise me you won't die?

TONY STARK: You're only giving me a mild cardiac dysrhythmia.

SCOTT LANG: That doesn't sound mild.

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): I need the case.

TONY STARK (2012): I know you got a lotta pull. I'm just saying...

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Okay. Then give me the case.

TONY STARK: Do it, Lang!

TONY STARK (2012): Get your hands off!

TONY STARK: Window's closing. Pull my pin!

SCOTT LANG: Here goes!

[Ant-Man pulls off Stark 2012's reactor, and Tony (2012) drops the case]

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark?

THOR (2012): Stark!

[Stark 2012 falls down to the ground]

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Look, he's convulsing. Give him air! Medic!

TONY STARK: MEDIC! You guys, some help!

ALEXANDER PIERCE (2012): Stark, you--- your chest machine?

[Ant-Man pushes the case, Loki looks at case, Tony Stark grabs the case.]

TONY STARK: Good job. Meet me in the alley. I'm gonna grab a quick slice.

[Suddenly, Hulk 2012 pushes Tony to the ground and the Tesseract slides to Loki]

HULK (2012): NO STAIRS!!!!

[Everyone runs from Hulk's rampage, Loki 2012 grabs the Tesseract and teleports it away.]

THOR (2012): You'll be fine, Stark. Stay with us! I'll try something, okay? I have no idea if it's gonna work.

[Thor 2012 uses the Mjolnir as the defibrillator on Tony Stark 2012]

THOR (2012): YES!

TONY STARK (2012): That worked a treat. That was so crazy!

THOR (2012): I had no idea if that was gonna work.

TONY STARK (2012): The case?

THOR (2012): The case. It's, uhh... Where's the case? Where's Loki? Loki!

SCOTT LANG: That wasn't supposed to happen, was it?

TONY STARK: Oh, we blew it.

THOR (2012): Loki!?

[Cut to a walkway several floors up. Steve is having trouble on his communicator.]

STEVE ROGERS: Tony, what's going on? Tell me you found that cube. [He looks up and groans.] Oh, you gotta be shitting me.

[In front of him, Steve sees his 2012 self looking back]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): I have eyes on Loki. 14th floor.

STEVE ROGERS: [Puts the case down] I'm not Loki. And I don't wanna hurt you.

[2012 Steve engages and the two Captain Americas begin to duel.]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): I can do this all day.

STEVE ROGERS: [Standing up] Yeah, I know. I know.

[Both Rogers' frisbee their shield's at one another which clang away as they brawl, inadvertently kicking away the case containing the scepter which falls down a few levels. 2012 Steve gets the upper hand on Future Steve's as they both fall down to the same level as the scepter. Future Steve's locket of Peggy falls out, Steve (2012) notices it.]

STEVE ROGERS (2012): Where did you get this?

[Steve (2012) has future Steve in a chokehold]

STEVE ROGERS: Bucky... is... alive!

STEVE ROGERS (2012): What?

[Future Steve takes the chance to sucker punch his counterpart, grab the scepter and knock Steve (2012) out, gets up and stares at him]

STEVE ROGERS: That is America's ass.

[Scene cuts back to Bruce and The Ancient One (2012). As Hulk is lying down on a beach chair who looks like he's sleeping with a hat on, Bruce Banner tries reasoning with the Ancient One to let him have the Time Stone.]

BRUCE BANNER: Please, please!

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm sorry, I can't help you, Bruce. If I give up the Time Stone to help your Reality, I'm dooming my own.

BRUCE BANNER: With all due respect, I'm not sure the science really supports that.

[The Ancient One creates a projection with a long ray that simulates the flow of time.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): The Infinity Stones create what you experience as the flow of time. Remove one stone and that flow splits. [She flicks the Time Stone projection away and Shows black stream indicating a point of divergence] Now, this may benefit your reality, but my new one…not so much. In this new branched Reality, without our chief weapon against the forces of darkness, our world will be overrun. Millions will suffer. So, tell me, Doctor, can your science prevent all that?

BRUCE BANNER: No, but we can erase it. Because once we are done with the stones, we can return each one to its own timeline at the moment it was taken. So, chronologically, [Holds the Time Stone projection] in that reality, [puts it back to its spot] it never left.

[Bruce's astral form takes the projection of the removed Time Stone, replaces it back amongst the other five, and the doomed alternate dimension fades away, illustrating his point.]

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [still not convinced.] But you are leaving out the most important part. In order to return the stones, you have to survive.

BRUCE BANNER: We will. I will. I promise.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I can't risk this Reality on a promise. It is the duty of the Sorcerer Supreme to protect the Time Stone.

BRUCE BANNER: Then, why the hell did Strange give it away?

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): [Surprised] What did you say?

BRUCE BANNER: Strange, he gave it away. He gave it to Thanos.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Willingly?

BRUCE BANNER: Yes!

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): ...Why?

BRUCE BANNER: I have no idea. Maybe he made a mistake.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): Or I did. [She returns to Banner control of his Hulk body and opens the Eye of Agamotto, revealing the Time Stone] Strange is meant to be the best of us.

BRUCE BANNER: So he must have done it for a reason.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I fear you might be right. [gives him the Time Stone]

BRUCE BANNER: Thank you.

THE ANCIENT ONE (2012): I'm counting on you, Bruce. We all are.

[Cut to Thanos (2014), Nebula (2014), Gamora (2014) and Ebony Maw (2014) on the Sanctuary II.]

THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Run diagnostics. Show me her memory file.

EBONY MAW (2014): Sire, the file appears entangled. It was a memory, but not hers. There's another consciousness sharing her network...another Nebula.

THANOS (2014): Impossible.

EBONY MAW (2014): This duplicate carries a time stamp... from nine years in the future.

THANOS (2014): Where is this other Nebula?

EBONY MAW (2014): In our solar system. On Morag.

THANOS (2014): Can you access her?

EBONY MAW (2014): Yes. The two are linked.

THANOS (2014): Search the duplicate's memories for Infinity Stones.

[Memory of the meeting with all the Avengers starts playing]

BRUCE BANNER (2023): And these stones have been in a lot of different places throughout history.

TONY STARK (2023): Our history. So, not a lot of convenient spots to just drop in.

CLINT BARTON (2023): Which means we have to pick our targets.

TONY STARK (2023): Correct.

[End memory.]

THANOS (2014): [To Ebony Maw] Freeze image.

GAMORA (2014): Terrans.

THANOS (2014): Avengers. Unruly wretches. What's that reflection? Amplify this, Maw.

GAMORA (2014): [Looking at a reflection of Nebula (2023)] I don't understand. Two Nebulas.

THANOS (2014): No. The same Nebula. From two different times. Set course for Morag. Scan the duplicate's memories. I want to see everything.

[Cut back to Thor and Rocket in Asgard, 2013]

FRIGGA (2013): My ladies, I'll see you after. Go on.

[Thor tries not to get caught behind a large post, but gets shocked when he sees his mother behind him]

FRIGGA (2013): [To Thor] What are you doing?

THOR: Aah!!!

FRIGGA (2013): Aah!!!

THOR: OH, God!

FRIGGA (2013): You're better off leaving the sneaking to your brother.

THOR: Yeah, I was simply just going for a walk, and uh... [Trying to hide his belly]

FRIGGA (2013): What are you wearing?

THOR: I always wear this. This is one of my favorites.

[Frigga puts her hand on Thor's face and takes a good look at him}

FRIGGA (2013): What's wrong with your eye?

THOR: Oh, my eye. That's... you remember the Battle of Haroquin? When I got hit in the face with a broadsword?

FRIGGA (2013): You're not the Thor I know at all, are you?

THOR: [Pretending] Yes, I am.

FRIGGA (2013): The future hasn't been kind to you, has it?

THOR: I didn't say I'm from the future.

FRIGGA (2013): I was raised by witches, boy. I see with more than eyes, and you know that.

[Thor attempts to hold back his tears and fails miserably.]

THOR: [voice breaking up] I am totally, totally from the future.

FRIGGA (2013): Yes, you are.

THOR: I really need to talk to you.

FRIGGA (2013): We can talk.

[They both hug each other. Scene cuts to Jane Foster waking up while Rocket sneaks behind her to extract the Aether. Scene cuts back to Thor and Frigga's conversation.]

THOR: His head was over there... His body over there... What was the point? I was too late. I was just standing there. Some idiot with an axe.

FRIGGA (2013): You're no idiot. You're here aren't you? Seeking counsel from the wisest person in Asgard.

THOR: I guess, yeah.

FRIGGA (2013): Idiot? No. A failure? Absolutely.

THOR: That's a little bit harsh.

FRIGGA (2013): You do know what that makes you? Just like everyone else.

THOR: I'm not supposed to be like everyone else, am I?

FRIGGA (2013): Everyone fails at who they are supposed to be, Thor. The measure of a person, of a hero, is how well they succeed at being who they are.

THOR: I really missed you, Mum.

[scene cuts to Rocket running away from the Asgardian soldiers]

ROCKET: Thor! I got it!

ASGARDIAN SOLDIER (2013): Get that rabbit!

THOR: Ma, I have to tell you something.

FRIGGA (2013): No, son. You don't. You're here to repair your future, not mine.

THOR: But this is about your future.

FRIGGA (2013): It's none of my business. [does she know?]

ROCKET: Hey. You must be Mom. I got the thing. Come on, we got to move.

THOR: I wish we had more time.

FRIGGA (2013): No, this was a gift. And you're going to be the man you're meant to be.

THOR: I love you, Mom.

FRIGGA (2013): I love you. And eat a salad.

ROCKET: Come on. We gotta go.

FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.

ROCKET: Three... two...

THOR: No, wait!

[Thor holds out his hand]

ROCKET: [To Frigga] Wh- what am I looking at?

FRIGGA (2013): Oh, sometimes it takes a second.

[Thor summons Mjolnir.]

THOR: [Happy and a little bit surprised] I'm still worthy.

["Come And Get Your Love" starts playing in the background.]

ROCKET: Oh, boy.

THOR: Goodbye, Mom.

FRIGGA (2013): [whispers] Goodbye.

[Scene cuts to Quill on Morag dancing to "Come And Get Your Love", we then pan over to Rhodey and Nebula hiding in the background watching Quill dance and sing to their perspective without music.]

RHODEY: So he's an idiot?

NEBULA: Yeah.

[Rhodey knocks out Quill and Nebula rummages around to take Quill's tool.]

RHODEY: What's that?

NEBULA: The tool of a thief.

[Nebula uses the tool to open the door that leads to The Orb A.K.A The Power Stone. Nebula tries to walk in but is stopped by Rhodey.]

RHODEY: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa...This is the part where spikes come out with skeletons on the end and everything...

NEBULA: What are you talking about?

RHODEY: When you break into a place called the temple of the Power Stone, There's gonna be a bunch of booby traps–

[Nebula just shakes her head and walks in.]

RHODEY: Okay. All right. Go ahead.

[Nebula forces her hand inside the force field protecting The Orb while it melts away the exterior plating on her arm. She successfully retrieves The Orb and hands it to Rhodey all the while Rhodey watched the whole thing happened.]

NEBULA: I wasn't always like this.

RHODEY: Me either. But we work with what we got, right?

[They just both look at each other solemnly.]

RHODEY: Sync up. [They both suit up.] Three.. two.. one...

[Rhodey is the only one who disappears while Nebula is left behind unable to move, then she riddled with pain on her head. She falls to the ground.]

[Sanctuary II. 2014 Nebula is being scanned in synch with her future self. A memory is played, coming from future Nebula's head.]

BRUCE (Memory): You murdered trillions!

THANOS (Memory): You should be grateful.

NATASHA (Memory): Where are the stones?

THANOS (Memory): Gone. Reduced to atoms.

BRUCE (Memory): You used them two days ago.

THANOS (Memory): I used the stones to destroy the stones. It nearly killed me. But the work is done. It always will be. I am inevitable.

[Memory pauses.]

GAMORA (2014): What did you do to them?

THANOS (2014): Nothing. Yet. They're not trying to stop something I'm going to do in our time. They're trying to undo something I've already done in theirs.

GAMORA (2014): The stones...

THANOS (2014): I found them all. I won. Tipped the cosmic scales to balance.

[Thanos (2014) caress Gamora (2014) and she kneels down]

EBONY MAW (2014): This is your future.

THANOS (2014): It's my destiny.

[Maw resumes playing the memory]

NEBULA (Memory): My father is many things. A liar is not one of them.

THANOS (Memory): Ah...Thank you, Daughter. Perhaps I treated you too harshly...

[Thanos gets beheaded in the memory, Gamora (2014) is shocked and stands up]

THANOS (2014): And that, is destiny fulfilled.

EBONY MAW (2014): [Dangerous voice.] Sire, your Daughter...

[Maw (2014) telekinetically wraps a chain around Nebula (2014).]

NEBULA (2014): No!

EBONY MAW (2014): ...is a traitor.

NEBULA (2014): That's not me. It's not. I could never... I would never betray you. Never.

[Thanos (2014) releases the chain around Nebula (2014) neck and holds her head in his palm]

THANOS (2014): I know. And you'll have the chance to prove it.

[Thanos (2014) makes sure Nebula cannot travel back to 2023. Nebula is stuck in 2014.]

NEBULA: No! He knows! [Runs back to the ship and gets on the comms.] Barton? Barton, come in. Romanoff? Come in, we have a problem. Come on! Come in, we have a prob....Thanos knows. Thanos… He knows.

[Nebula looks up in horror just to be abducted by the Sanctuary II. The scene cuts to Steve, who has just defeated himself, jumping down from a building with the scepter]

TONY STARK: Cap–

[He turns around to see Tony and Scott sitting in a broken car.]

TONY STARK: Sorry, buddy. We got a– problem.

SCOTT LANG: Huh. Yeah, we do.

STEVE ROGERS: Well, what are we gonna do now?

TONY STARK: You know what? Give me a break, Steve. I just got hit in the head with the Hulk.

SCOTT LANG: You said that we had one shot. This– this was our shot. We shot it. It's shot. Six stones or nothing. Six stones or nothing–

TONY STARK: You're repeating yourself, you know that? You're repeating yourself.

SCOTT LANG: You're repeating yourself. You're repeating yourself. You know– No.

TONY STARK: Dude, come on.

SCOTT LANG: You never wanted a time heist, you went on board with the time heist–

TONY STARK: I dropped the ball.

SCOTT LANG: You ruined the time heist.

TONY STARK: Is that what I did?

SCOTT LANG: Yeah!

STEVE ROGERS: Are there any other options with the Tesseract?

SCOTT LANG: No, no, no. There's no other options. There's no do-overs. We're not going anywhere else. We have one particle left. Each. That's it, alright? We use that– Bye, bye. You're not going home.

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah, well if we don't try, then no one else is going home, either.

TONY STARK: I got it. There's another way. To retake the Tesseract and acquire new particles. We'll stroll down memory lane. Military installation, Garden State.

STEVE ROGERS: When were they both there?

TONY STARK: They were there at a– I've a vaguely exact idea.

STEVE ROGERS: How vague?

SCOTT LANG: What are you talking about? Where are we going?

TONY STARK: I know for a fact they were there–

SCOTT LANG: Who's they? What are we doing?

TONY STARK: And I know how I know.

SCOTT LANG: Guys, what's up? What is it?

TONY STARK: Well, it looks like we're improvising.

SCOTT LANG: Right. What are we improvising?

TONY STARK: Scott, get this back to the compound.

TONY STARK: Suit up.

SCOTT LANG: What's in New Jersey?

TONY STARK: 0-4,

STEVE ROGERS: 0-4– -

TONY STARK: Uhh, 0-7.

STEVE ROGERS: 0-7. -

SCOTT LANG: Excuse me...

TONY STARK: 1-9-7-0.

STEVE ROGERS: Are you sure?

SCOTT LANG: Cap. Captain. Steve, sorry, America. Rogers. Look, if you do this, and this doesn't work, you're not coming back.

TONY STARK: Thanks for the pep talk, pissant. [To Steve] Do you trust me?

STEVE ROGERS: I do.

TONY STARK: Your call.

STEVE ROGERS: Here we go.

[Cut to Steve and Tony in New Jersey, 1970]

OUR WATCHER INFORMANT, STAN LEE (1922-2018 R.I.P): [Driving past Steve and Tony] Hey, man! Make love, not war!

TONY STARK: Clearly, you weren't actually born here, right?

STEVE ROGERS: The idea of me was.

TONY STARK: Right. Well, imagine you're SHIELD, running a quasi-fascistic intelligence organization. Where do you hide it?

STEVE ROGERS: In plain sight.

[Tony and Steve are in an elevator with a lady]

TONY STARK: [Leaving the elevator] Good luck on your mission, Captain.

STEVE ROGERS: [Waiting for another floor] Good luck on your project, doctor.

ELEVATOR LADY: You're new here?

STEVE ROGERS: Not exactly.

[Cut to Tony in what seems to be a lab area and he is looking for the tesseract]

TONY STARK: [Grabbing Tesseract] Gotcha. Back in the game.

HOWARD STARK: Arnim, you in there? Arnim? Hey! Door's this way, pal.

TONY STARK: Oh, yeah.

HOWARD STARK: I'm looking for Dr. Zola. Have you seen him?

TONY STARK: Yeah, no, Dr. Zol– No, I haven't seen a soul. [awkwardly bumps into a chair] Pardon me.

HOWARD STARK: Do I know you?

TONY STARK: No, sir. I'm a– a visitor from MIT.

HOWARD STARK: Huh. MIT. Got a name?

TONY STARK: Uh– Howard.

HOWARD STARK: Well, that'll be easy to remember.

TONY STARK: Howard– Potts.

HOWARD STARK: Well, I'm Howard Stark. [Holds out hand to shake.]

TONY STARK: Hi. [Holds Howard's finger]

HOWARD STARK: Shake it, don't pull it.

TONY STARK: Yeah–

HOWARD STARK: You look a little green around the gills there, Potts.

TONY STARK: I'm fine. Just, long hours.

HOWARD STARK: Wanna get some air? Hello, Potts.

TONY STARK: Yeah. That would be swell.

HOWARD STARK: That way.

TONY STARK: Okay.

HOWARD STARK: Need your briefcase?

[Tony grabs the case]

HOWARD STARK: You're not one of those beatniks, are ya, Potts?

[Cut to a younger Hank Pym in his laboratory.]

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Hello. Dr. Pym?

HANK PYM: That would be the number that you called. Yes.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): This is Captain Stevens from shipping. We have a package for you.

HANK PYM: Bring it up.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, that's the thing, sir. We can't.

HANK PYM: I'm confused. I thought that was your job.

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Well, it's just– Sir, the box is glowing and, to be honest, some of our mail guys aren't feeling that great.

HANK PYM: They didn't open it, did they?

CAPTAIN STEVENS (STEVE ROGERS): Yeah, they did. You better get down here.

[We then see Pym running down a hallway]

HANK PYM: Excuse me! Out of the way!

[cut back to Howard and Tony]

TONY STARK: So, flowers and sauerkraut. You got a big date tonight?

HOWARD STARK: My wife's expecting. And, uh– Too much time in the office.

TONY STARK: Congratulations.

HOWARD STARK: Thanks. Hold this, will you?

TONY STARK: Yeah, sure. How far along is she?

HOWARD STARK: I don't know– Uh– She's at the point where she can't stand the sound of my chewing. I guess I'll be eating dinner in the pantry again.

TONY STARK: I have a little girl.

HOWARD STARK: A girl would be nice. Less of a chance she'd turn out exactly like me.

TONY STARK: What'd be so awful about that?

HOWARD STARK: Let's just say that the greater good has rarely outweighed my own self-interests.

[cut to elevator lady talking to security guards about Tony and Captain America looking fishy]

SECURITY OFFICER: And you've never seen these two men before?

ELEVATOR LADY: No, I've got an eye for this. The two of them looked fishy.

SECURITY OFFICER: Can you describe them?

ELEVATOR LADY: Well, one of them had a hippie beard.

SECURITY OFFICER: Hippie? Like Bee Gees or Mungo Jerry?

ELEVATOR LADY: Definitely Mungo Jerry.

SECURITY OFFICER: Yeah, this is Chesler. I need every available MPs on sub-level 6. We have a potential breach.

[Steve walks into a room. Feeling safe, he suddenly see's a picture of himself. Then he's surprised to see his love Margret Carter. Cut to Tony and Howard still talking to each other.]

TONY STARK: So, where are you at with names?

HOWARD STARK: Well, if it's a boy, my wife likes Elmonzo.

TONY STARK: Huh, Might wanna let that stew awwhile. You got time.

HOWARD STARK: Let me ask you a question. When your kid was born– were you nervous?

TONY STARK: Wildly. Yeah.

HOWARD STARK: Did you feel qualified? Like you had any idea how to successfully operate that thing?

TONY STARK: I literally pieced it together as I went along, I thought about what my Dad did, and–

HOWARD STARK: My old man, he never met a problem he couldn't solve with a belt.

TONY STARK: I thought my dad was tough on me. And now, looking back, I just remember the good stuff, you know. He did drop the odd pearl.

HOWARD STARK: Yeah? Like what?

TONY STARK: "No amount of money ever bought a second of time."

HOWARD STARK: Smart guy.

TONY STARK: He did his best.

HOWARD STARK: Let me tell you. That kid's not even here yet, and there's nothing I wouldn't do for him. Good to meet you, Potts.

TONY STARK: Yeah, Howard– Everything's gonna be all right. Thank you– for everything– you've done for this country.

HOWARD STARK: Jarvis, have we ever met that guy?

EDWIN JARVIS: You meet a lot of people, sir.

HOWARD STARK: Seems very familiar. Weird beard.

[2014 Nebula has captured 2023 Nebula and 2014 Nebula is fighting her future self.]

NEBULA (2014): You're weak.

NEBULA: I'm you.

[Nebula (2014) throws a punch straight at Present Nebula. Gamora (2014) walks into the room.]

NEBULA: You can stop this. You know you want to. Did you see what happens in the future? Thanos finds the Soul Stone. You wanna know how he does that? You wanna know what he does to you?

NEBULA (2014): That's enough. [kicks Present Nebula to the wall and pulls out her Electric Knife.] You disgust me. But that doesn't mean you're useless.

[Nebula (2014) steals the golden plate on the side of Present Nebula´s face and wears it herself. Then she walks up to Thanos, gives him a Pym Particle and shows him her new look.]

NEBULA (2014): How do I look?

[Scene cuts to Vormir 2014 where Natasha and Clint arrives.]

CLINT BARTON: Wow– Under different circumstances, this would be totally awesome.

[Natasha and Clint starts walking towards the mountain and climb it.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I bet the raccoon didn't have to climb a mountain. CLINT BARTON: Technically, he's not a raccoon, you know.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Whatever. He eats garbage.

RED SKULL (2014): Welcome.

[Natasha and Clint draws their weapons.]

RED SKULL (2014): Natasha, daughter of Ivan. Clint, son of Edith.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Who are you?

RED SKULL (2014): Consider me a guide. To you, and to all who seek the Soul Stone.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Oh, good. You tell us where it is. Then we'll be on our way.

RED SKULL (2014): Ah, liebchen– If only it were that easy.

[Red Skull leads Clint and Natasha to the cliff]

RED SKULL (2014): What you seek lies in front of you... as does what you fear.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: The stone is down there.

RED SKULL (2014): For one of you. For the other... In order to take the stone, you must lose that which you love. An everlasting exchange. A soul, for a soul.

[scene cuts to Natasha sitting on a log while Clint watches the Stonekeeper.]

CLINT BARTON: How's it going? Jesus...Maybe he's making this shit up.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: No. I don't think so.

CLINT BARTON: Why, 'cause he knows your Daddy's name?

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I didn't. Thanos left here with the stone without his daughter. It's not a coincidence.

CLINT BARTON: Yeah.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Whatever it takes.

CLINT BARTON: Whatever it takes.

[Natasha stands up.]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: If we don't get that stone, billions of people stay dead.

CLINT BARTON: Then I guess we both know who it's gotta be.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I guess we do.

[Clint holds Natasha's hand and she reciprocates and they look at each other]

CLINT BARTON: I'm starting to think– we mean different people here, Natasha.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: For the last five years I've been trying to do one thing: Get to right here. That's all it's been about. Bringing everybody back.

CLINT BARTON: Oh, don't you get all decent on me now.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: What, you think I wanna do it? I'm trying to save your life, you idiot.

CLINT BARTON: Yeah, well, I don't want you to, because I– Natasha, you know what I've done. You know what I've become.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: I don't judge people on their worst mistakes.

CLINT BARTON: Maybe you should.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You didn't.

CLINT BARTON: You're a pain in my ass, you know that?

[Both Clint and Natasha lean their heads against each other]

CLINT BARTON: Okay. You win.

[Clint smiles and knocks Natasha to the ground]

CLINT BARTON: Tell my family I love them.

[Natasha returns the favor by tackling Clint to the ground]

NATASHA ROMANOFF: You tell them yourself.

[Natasha electrocutes Clint and she runs towards the cliff. Clint gets up and shoots an explosive arrow knocking her down. Clint then runs towards the cliff and jumps. Natasha jumps after him and hooks him up to a grappling hook]

CLINT BARTON: Damn you!

NATASHA ROMANOFF: Let me go.

CLINT BARTON: No. Please, no.

NATASHA ROMANOFF: It's okay.

CLINT BARTON: Please– [Natasha kicks the wall, falls off the rope, and plummets to the ground.] NO!!!

[The shot shows her body on the ground, dead. A boom in the sky sends Clint in a pool of water with the Soul Stone in his hand. He hits the ground out of sadness. His Quantum Suit activates and he shrinks back to the present day, soon joined by the others returning from their journeys. Cut to the Avengers HQ and the Quantum platform everyone looks around to see all the recovered stones.]

BRUCE BANNER: Did we get them all?

RHODEY: You telling me this'll actually work?

[There's a pause as everyone starts to realise someone is missing.]

BRUCE BANNER: Clint, where's Nat?

[The silence from Clint tells them all they need to know. The mission was completed but at a dire cost. Sadness overtakes everyone. Bruce falls to his knees and pounds the floor in grief.]

[Cut to outside HQ. Lakeside, Tony, Steve, Thor, Clint, and Bruce are mourning their fallen teammate and friend.]

TONY STARK: Do we know if she had family?

STEVE ROGERS: Yeah. Us.

THOR: (confused) What?

TONY STARK: I just asked him a question–

THOR: Yeah, you're acting like she's dead. Why are we acting like she's dead? We have the stones, right? As long as we have the stones, Cap, we can bring her back, isn't that right? [GROWLING.] So stop this shit. We're the Avengers, get it together.

CLINT BARTON: We can't get her back.

THOR: Wha– what?

CLINT BARTON: It can't be undone. It can't.

[Thor dryly laughs.]

THOR: I'm sorry. No offense, but you're a very earthly being. Okay? We're talking about space magic. And "can't" seems very definitive don't you think?

CLINT BARTON: (to Thor) Yeah, look, I know that I'm way outside my paygrade here. But she still isn't here, is she?

THOR: No, that's my point–

CLINT BARTON: It can't– be undone. Or that's at least what the red floating guy had to say. (shouts) Maybe you wanna go talk to him, okay? GO GRAB YOUR HAMMER, AND YOU GO FLY AND TALK TO HIM!

[Clint's anger is quickly replaced with grief]

CLINT BARTON: It was supposed to be me. She sacrificed her life for that goddamn stone. She bet her life on it.

[In a burst of anger, Bruce grabs a bench and hurls it clear across the lake. His anger spent, he turns to the others with a resigned look on his face]

BRUCE BANNER: She's not coming back. We have to make it worth it. We have to.

STEVE ROGERS: We will.

[Cut to inside the Avenger's Lab. Tony carefully places the stones in the gauntlet he made while Bruce and Rocket watches. With nervous precision, Tony manipulates the machine and carefully places all six stones into the gauntlet]

ROCKET: Boom!

[Tony and Bruce jump a bit, and quickly groan at Rocket's joke. Scene cuts to another room with the new finished gauntlet. Everyone is gathered around it.]

ROCKET: All right. The glove's ready. Question is, who's gonna snap their freaking fingers?

THOR: I'll do it.

TONY Stark: Excuse me?

THOR: It's okay.

EVERYONE: (holding up Thor) No, no, no, whoa. Stop. Stop. Wait a sec. Wait, wait–

STEVE ROGERS: Thor, just wait. We haven't decided who's gonna put that on yet. THOR: I'm sorry. What, we're just sitting around waiting for the right opportunity?

SCOTT LANG: We should at least discuss it.

THOR: No, no, sitting here staring at that thing is not gonna bring everybody back. I'm the strongest Avenger, okay? So this responsibility falls upon me. It's my duty.

TONY STARK: It's not about that–

THOR: (hushes everyone up) It's not that– Stop it! Just let me! (he tears up) Just let me do it. Just let me do something good. Something right.

TONY STARK : Look– It's not just the fact that that glove is channeling enough energy to light up a continent, I'm telling you, you're in no condition.

THOR: What do you– What do you think is coursing through my veins right now?

RHODEY: Cheez Whiz?

THOR: Lightning.

TONY STARK: Yeah.

BRUCE: Lightning won't help you, pal. It's gotta be me.

[Thor lets go of Tony. Sorry, Thor. Maybe next time.]

BRUCE BANNER: You saw what those stones did to Thanos. It almost killed him. None of you could survive.

STEVE ROGERS: How do we know you will?

BRUCE BANNER: We don't. But the radiation's mostly gamma. [He takes a good look at the gauntlet] It's like...I was made for this.

[Nebula (2014) sneaks off to the Quantum portal and activates it]

TONY STARK: Good to go, yeah?

BRUCE BANNER: Let's do it.

TONY STARK: You remember– everyone Thanos snapped away five years ago and just bringing them back to now, today. Don't change anything from the last five years.

BRUCE BANNER: Got it.

[Everyone gets ready and suits up]

TONY STARK: F.R.I.D.A.Y., do me a favor and activate Barn Door Protocol. Will you?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Yes, boss.

[Avengers facility goes on lockdown]

BRUCE BANNER: Everybody comes home.

[Bruce puts on the gauntlet, which nanobotically expands to fit his hand, and the power surge overwhelms him. He grunts in pain.]

THOR: Take it off! Take it off!

STEVE ROGERS: No, wait. Bruce, are you okay?

TONY STARK: Talk to me, Banner.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm okay. I'm okay.

[Thor gives a double thumbs up, scene cuts to Nebula (2014) opening the Quantum Tunnel and brings the Sanctuary II to the present. Bruce screams, fighting through the intense pain coursing through his body courtesy of the gauntlet, and manages to snap his fingers. He faints and the gauntlet slides off his arm, Clint kicks it away.]

STEVE ROGERS: Bruce!

TONY STARK: Don't move him.

BRUCE ROGERS: [Bruce holds onto Steve's arm] Did it work?

THOR: Worth a shot. It's over. It's okay.

[Scott walks towards the outside windows and sees plants and birds. Clint hears his phone ringing and sees it's his wife calling]

CLINT BARTON: (struggling to speak from sheer happiness) Honey. Honey.

SCOTT LANG: Guys– I think it worked!

[Bruce opens his eyes and sees the Sanctuary II up in the sky and a single missile heading towards the base blowing away Scott away. Then a continuous array of missiles destroys the base completely and everyone sinks below to the underground.]

[The camera pans over to see Bruce holding up tons of debris from collapsing on top of the other Avengers with his one good arm. Some debris is stuck on top of Rocket.]

ROCKET: I can't breathe. I can't breathe! I can't breathe.

RHODEY: Canopy. Canopy. Canopy. [Rhodey gets out of his damaged suit]

BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey, Rocket, get outta here!

[Rhodey crawls over to help Rocket while taking a rebar as leverage to lift the debris off Rocket]

ROCKET: Hurry up! Hurry up! Come on!

[Rhodey gets Rocket out and they both sigh in relief]

BRUCE BANNER: Rhodey!

[A flood engulfs both Rhodey and Rocket]

[Scene cuts to Scott who survives the blast by shrinking.]

RHODEY: Mayday, mayday! Does anybody copy? We're in the lower level, it's flooding!

SCOTT LANG: What?

RHODEY: We're drowning! Does anybody copy? Mayday!

SCOTT LANG: Wait! I'm here! I'm here, can you hear me?

[Scene cuts to Clint in the sewer system and trying to get his bearings. He flashes a light upwards to see what happened.]

CLINT BARTON: Cap?

[Clint finds the gauntlet is with him but senses he's not alone down there. He shoots an arrow with light towards the dark tunnel and finds hordes of Outriders.]

CLINT BARTON: [under his breath] Damn.

[Clint takes the gauntlet and runs towards the opposite direction while the Outriders chase after him.]

[Scene cuts to the Sanctuary II and it beams Thanos (2014) fully armoured to the ground. Nebula walks towards him.]

THANOS (2014): Daughter.

NEBULA (2014): Yes, Father.

THANOS (2014): So, this is the future. Well done.

[Nebula (2014) takes off the orange plate on her head and throws it away]

NEBULA (2014): Thank you, Father. They suspected nothing.

[Thanos (2014) plants his double-bladed sword on the ground, takes off his helmet and places on top of the sword's edge.]

THANOS (2014): The arrogant never do.

[Thanos then sits down]

THANOS (2014): Go. Find the stones. Bring them to me.

NEBULA (2014): What will you do?

THANOS (2014): Wait.

[Nebula (2014) proceeds to go find the stones and the camera pans over the Sanctuary II and we see Gamora (2014) watching. Gamora (2014) heads over to where Nebula is being held prisoner.]

GAMORA (2014): Tell me something. In the future, what happens to you and me?

NEBULA: I tried to kill you. Several times.

[Gamora (2014) rolls her eyes]

NEBULA: But eventually, we become friends. We become sisters.

[Gamora (2014) holds out her hand.]

GAMORA (2014): Come on. We can stop him.

[Nebula takes it]

[Scene cuts to Tony walking towards Steve who's unconscious on the ground.]

TONY STARK: Come on, buddy. Wake up. That's my man. [He has Cap's shield.] You lose this again, I'm keeping it.

STEVE ROGERS: What happened?

TONY STARK: You messed with time. It tends to mess back. You'll see.

[Tony helps Steve on his feet. They walk up to join Thor, who has been observing Thanos (2014) from a distance.]

TONY STARK: What's he been doing?

THOR: Absolutely nothing.

STEVE ROGERS: Where are the stones?

TONY STARK: Somewhere under all this. All I know is he doesn't have them.

STEVE ROGERS: So we keep it that way.

THOR: You know it's a trap, right?

TONY STARK: Yeah. And I don't much care.

THOR: Good. Just as long we are all in agreement. [Thunder cracks as Thor stretches out both hands to summon both Stormbreaker and Mjolnir (2013). His casual clothes transform into his armour and cape, with his beard getting some braid treatment.] Let's kill him properly this time.

[The Big Three walk over to confront Thanos face to face]

THANOS (2014): You could not live with your own failure. And where did that bring you? Back to me. I thought by eliminating half of life, the other half would thrive. But you’ve shown me that’s impossible. And as long as there are those that remember what was, there will always be those that are unable to accept what can be. They will resist.

TONY STARK: Yep. We're all kinds of stubborn.

THANOS (2014): I'm thankful. Because now, I know what I must do. [stands up] I will shred this universe down to its last atom. [Thanos (2014) puts on his helmet] And then– With the stones you've collected for me, create a new one. Teeming with life, but knows not what it has lost but only what it has been given. [Thor lights himself up.] A grateful universe.

STEVE ROGERS: Born out of blood.

THANOS (2014): They'll never know it. Because you won't be alive to tell them.

[The fighting starts, and Thor and Tony go straight at Thanos (2014). Meanwhile, Hulk is under all of the mess trying to hold up the structure. Rhodey and Rocket are breathing for their lives.]

RHODEY: See you on the other side, man.

SCOTT LANG: Hang on! I'm coming!

[Hawkeye is running with the infinity gauntlet. He blows the place, and escapes before the Outriders overwhelm him. He sees Nebula.]

CLINT BARTON: Oh, hey– I know you.

[Clint gives her the gauntlet. then she puts her hand on her earpiece]

NEBULA: Father.

[Clint gasped and finds out that she's from 2014]

NEBULA (2014): I have the stones.

CLINT BARTON: What?!

[Clint tries to get up but Nebula (2014) steps her foot down on him an points her gun at him]

GAMORA (2014): Stop.

[Gamora (2014) come around the corner]

NEBULA (2014): You're betraying us?

[With her hands up, Nebula joins Gamora (2014). Nebula (2014) points her gun at her future self]

NEBULA: You don't have to do this.

NEBULA (2014): I am this.

GAMORA (2014): No, you're not.

NEBULA: You've seen what we become.

GAMORA (2014): Nebula, listen to her.

NEBULA: You can change.

NEBULA (2014): He won't let me.

[Nebula (2014) points a gun at Gamora (2014)]

GAMORA (2014): NO!

[Present Nebula shoots Nebula (2014) and she dies. Hawkeye picks up the Infinity Gauntlet]

[Cut to the 3 heroes battling Thanos]

TONY STARK: Okay, Thor. Hit me.

[Thor bangs his 2 hammers together combined with his lightning. Tony's suit sucks up the energy and he shoots it out using his hands and his body. Thanos twirls his blade really fast to divert the energy. Thor grabs Stormbreaker and uses it to bat Mjölnir to hit Thanos. Thanos uses Tony as a shield resulting in damage to his system.]

F.R.I.D.A.Y: Boss, wake up!

[Steve tries to attack Thanos but is easily shielded away by the Mad Titan. Thor's attack on Thanos is blocked by his sword. Thor is beaten and choked by Thanos, as he punches him. Mjolnir is flicked away as Thanos relentlessly beats up Thor, throwing him into a tree and socking him before throwing him over rubble and socking him again. Thor tries to grab Stormbreaker but Thanos grabs it and uses it against Thor as he tries to defend himself. Mjölnir (2013) starts to float off the ground while Thanos is digging it into Thor, when suddenly Mjolnir flies into Thanos, zooms past, stops, and flies back, both look on in amazement as Steve picks up the hammer.]

THOR: I knew it!

[Thanos' (2014) kicks Thor to the ground and proceed to battle Steve dual wielding both his shield and Mjolnir (2013)]

[Steve proceeds to charge at Thanos swinging Mjolnir (2013) and hitting Thanos in the face knocking him down. Steve throws his shield and Thanos (2014) deflects, Steve throws Mjolnir (2013) to his shield creating a shockwave and knocking Thanos (2014) off his feet. Steve goes on the offensive on Thanos, throwing his shield first at Thanos and quickly hitting it back at him again with Mjolnir. He lines his arm back up and underarms a channel of lightning on Thanos who eventually gets the upper hand as he removes his helmet, stabs Steve on the leg and knocks Mjolnir (2013) out of his hand. Thanos proceed to destroy Steve's shield with his double-bladed sword and throws him across the battlefield.]

[Steve staggeredly tries to get up.]

THANOS (2014): In all my years of conquest– violence– slaughter– It was never personal. But I'll tell you now– what I'm about to do to your stubborn, annoying little planet– I'm gonna enjoy it. Very, very much.

[Thanos' (2014) entire army is summons to the ground which include the Children of Thanos, Chitauri, Sakaarans, Outriders and Chitauri Gorillas. Upon seeing the army descending on Earth, Steve slowly gets back to his feet. With a fierce determination, he tightens his broken shield to his arm and stands against Thanos' giant army alone. Suddenly, a crackling comes in on his communicator.]

SAM WILSON: Hey, Cap, you read me?

[Steve stops and looks around]

SAM WILSON: Cap, it's Sam. Can you hear me?

[A yellow portal begins to form behind him.]

SAM WILSON: On your left.

[Steve looks behind to see the portal on his left side. Three figures step through; Okoye, Shuri, and Black Panther, fully restored and ready to fight. Steve and the revived Wakandans share a look when Sam zooms in from above in his Falcon armor. As he does, we see dozens more portals opening up all around the battlefield. Through one of these, we see Doctor Strange descend in. He is joined by Drax, Mantis, Star Lord, and Spider-Man. Everyone watches in confusion and awe as more and more heroes arrive from all corners of the universe, all backed up with forces of their own including Black Panther and his Wakandan army, Valkyrie and the Asgardians, Wong and the Masters of the Mystic Arts and several Ravager ships. Amongst the throngs of heroes we see Bucky, Groot, the Scarlet Witch, the Wasp, and Pepper Potts (clad in her own iron suit) arrive. Nearly every hero has magically been transported to the battlefield to face Thanos' hordes.]

DOCTOR STRANGE: Is that everyone?

WONG: What, you wanted more?

[Giant-Man emerges from the rubble of the Avengers facility with Professor Hulk, War Machine, and Rocket. The Avengers, Guardians, Wakandans, Asgardians, and Ravagers take up battle positions. The heroes standing across Thanos' forces.]

STEVE ROGERS: AVENGERS! [he summons Mjolnir] –assemble.

[Thor makes a battle cry, as does Black Panther and the heroes charge, the Avengers theme swelling with their stride. Thanos raises his sword towards them, commanding his army to charge as well. Then both sides collide. The camera switches between the meet-line, Drax and Korg, Pepper and Tony, all which are battling against Thanos' army.]

[Cuts to Steve and Thor fighting. Steve takes Stormbreaker but Thor flies to him and passes Mjolnir]

THOR: No, no, give me that. You have the little one. [best meme ever]

[Later, Tony is seen fighting some of Thanos' army. Cull Obsidian backhands him, sending him to the ground, but Spider-Man uses his webs to pull him to the ground, allowing Giant-Man to stomp him flat. Peter runs to Tony and helps him up.]

PETER PARKER: Hey! Holy cow! You will not believe what's been going on. Do you remember when we were in space? And I got all dusty? I must've passed out, Because I woke up, and you were gone. But Doctor Strange was there, right? He was like, "It's been five years. Come on, they need us." And then he started doing the yellow sparkly thing that he does all the time–

TONY STARK: He did? Oh, God.

PETER PARKER: What are you doing?

[Tony hugs Peter, who hugs him back.]

PETER PARKER: Oh, this is nice.

[Cut to Star-Lord Fighting a bunch of Sakaarans, killing all of them except one, which makes him fall over, but a off-screen shot kills him and he drops on Peter. Peter gets up and sees Gamora (2014). Thinking its present Gamora, he is shocked.]

PETER QUILL: Gamora? [Peter slowly approaches Gamora (2014)] I thought I lost you.

[Peter touches Gamora's hair, not knowing she isn't present Gamora. In response, Gamora (2014) grabs Peter's hand firmly off her hair.]

PETER QUILL: Ow.

GAMORA (2014): [Kicks Peter in the nuts, slightly hurting Peter] Don't– touch– [Kicks him again, this time harder] me!

[Peter falls from the pain, while Gamora (2014) wipes her face.]

PETER QUILL: You missed the first time– Then you got them both the second time.

GAMORA (2014): [to Nebula] This is the one? Seriously?

NEBULA: The choices were him, or a tree.

[Peter pointing to Gamora (2014) in confusion, then to Nebula in question, and then back to Gamora (2014).]

[Later, Clint is seen running with the gauntlet]

CLINT BARTON: Cap, what do you want me to do with this damn thing?

STEVE ROGERS: Get those stones as far away as possible!

BRUCE BANNER: No! We need to get them back where they came from.

TONY STARK: No way to get them back. Thanos destroyed the quantum tunnel.


SCOTT LANG: Hold on! [Scott shrinks to normal size and pulls out a remote.] That wasn't our only time machine.

[Scott presses the button, which activates Luis's van's Horn with the song La Cucaracha, which is heard from afar. Hearing so, Cap goes to higher ground.]

STEVE ROGERS: Anyone see an ugly, brown van up there?

VALKYRIE: Yes! But you're not gonna like where it's parked!

TONY STARK: Scott, how long you need to get that thing working?

SCOTT LANG: Maybe ten minutes.

STEVE ROGERS: Get it started. We'll get the stones to you.

HOPE VAN DYNE: We're on it, Cap.

[Scott and Hope share a look and they shrink. Scott grabs Hope, and they fly to the van. Doctor Strange traps a group of Chitauri in his magic and sends them through portals as Tony joins him.]

TONY STARK: Hey. You said one out of 14 million, we win, yeah? Tell me this is it.

DOCTOR STRANGE: If I tell you what happens, it won't happen.

TONY STARK: You better be right.

[Cut to Scott and Hope entering a small hole in the van's window, getting to the drive seat, regrowing and trying to activate the Quantum Tunnel.]

THE WASP: It's a mess back here.

SCOTT LANG: It's– it's dead.

THE WASP: What?

SCOTT LANG: It's dead. I have to hotwire it.

THANOS (2014): Where's Nebula?

CORVUS GLAIVE: She's not responding.

EBONY MAW (2014): [pointing.] Sire!

[Thanos sees the gauntlet. Clint rushes through Outriders, before finding himself surrounded. He is saved by Black Panther.]

T'CHALLA: Clint! Give it to me.

[Clint gives the Gauntlet to T'Challa, and he runs towards the van while fighting Thanos' army. Eventually he is stopped by the double edged sword, boomeranged by Thanos. When it gets back to him, he charges T'Challa, but is stopped by Wanda, who is filled with anger for the loss of Vision.]

WANDA MAXIMOFF: You took everything from me.

THANOS (2014): I don't even know who you are.

WANDA MAXIMOFF: You will.

[With her powers, Wanda picks up some debris on the ground and tries to crush Thanos with it.] [Ebony May grabs the Gauntlet with his telekinesis of bricks. He does the same for T'Challa, trying to stop him from getting the glove.]

PETER PARKER: I got it!

[Peter grabs the Gauntlet with his webshooters and is surrounded by Chitauri.]

PETER PARKER: Activate Instant Kill!

[The Robotic Spider Legs come out of his back, stabbing the Chitauri.]

[Thanos tries to kill Wanda with his double-bladed sword, but Wanda pushes it away. She then uses her powers to try and crush Thanos.]

THANOS (2014): Rain fire!

CORVUS GLAIVE: But sire, our troops!

THANOS (2014): Just do it!

[The spaceship cannons appear and start to fire at the heroes. It flings Maximoff away. Wong makes a shield and holds it up. The others do the same. Suddenly one of the cannons hit a dam. Water starts to flood into the battlefield. Pepper is the first to notice.]

PEPPER POTTS: Uh, is anyone else seeing this?

[Doctor Strange looks at the broken dam and uses his magic to stop the water from flooding the battlefield. Meanwhile, Peter is still battling the Chitauri.]

PETER PARKER: I got this. I got this! Okay, I don't got this. Help! Somebody, help!

STEVE: Hey, Queens, heads up.

[Steve throws Mjolnir, and Peter shoots a web and glides along, then Pepper Potts catches him]

PEPPER POTTS: Hang on. I got you, kid. [She drops him on Valkyrie's Pegasus]

PETER PARKER: Hey! Nice to meet you– OH, MY GOD!

[The cannons knock Peter Parker off the Pegasus, then they turn to face something in the sky as all the cannons start shooting at something.]

SAM: What the hell is this?

TONY STARK: F.R.I.D.A.Y., what are they firing at?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Something just entered the upper atmosphere.

[A bright light of thundering energy comes surging down as Carol Danvers flies through the ship, and it results in an explosion and the ship crash-landing in the lake]

ROCKET: Oh, yeah!

STEVE ROGERS: Danvers, we need an assist here.

[Cut to Scott finally activating the Quantum Tunnel. Then cut to Carol Danvers landing near Peter, who is on the ground, weirdly hugging the gauntlet with his body.]

PETER PARKER: Hi. I'm– Peter Parker.

CAROL DANVERS: Hey, Peter Parker. You got something for me?

PETER PARKER: [Gets up and passes her the gauntlet] I don't know how you're gonna get it through all that.

[Wanda arrives, Valkyrie flying on her Pegasus as she arrives.]

WANDA MAXIMOFF: Don't worry.

OKOYE: She's got help.

[Pepper lands next to Okoye, followed by Mantis, Shuri, the Wasp, 2014 Gamora and Nebula. Thanos' army charges while the women help Carol Danvers go through the Outriders, Sakaarans and Chitauri. 2014 Gamora takes out a gorilla, while Okoye takes out Corvus Glaive. Wanda and Valkyrie destroy two leviathans. Carol Danvers then starts flying towards the van with the Gauntlet, flying past enemies and going through enemy blockades that are in her way with ease. Thanos, seeing this, starts running to Carol Danvers, but is stopped by Pepper, Shuri and The Wasp, who blast him backwards. Thanos, after seeing Carol Danvers fly past him, throws his double sword at the van, destroying it and the quantum realm tunnel, throwing Carol Danvers backwards and losing her grip on the Gauntlet, which falls to the ground. Doctor Strange steadies the water after the explosion. In the final brawl for the Stark Gauntlet, Stark moves one of Thanos' enemies aside and sees the Gauntlet. He runs to get it, but sees Thanos, who Stark tackles. Thanos smacks Stark away, knocking him out. Then Thor arrives with Stormbreaker and 2013 Mjolnir in an attempt to pin Thanos' arm down, with assistance from Captain America. However, Thanos overpowers them and knocks them both out. After picking up the Gauntlet, Carol Danvers arrives, punching away at Thanos while he is holding the Gauntlet. She keeps punching him, but Thanos grabs her by the arm and flings her away. Thanos puts on the gauntlet, gamma radiation from the stones eating at him as he tries to snap, but Carol Danvers arises again, and stops his fingers from snapping, opening up his hand similar to what Captain America did in Avengers: Infinity War. Thanos headbutts her, but it does nothing. Just as Carol Danvers is gaining the upper hand by rising up and forcing Thanos onto his knees, Thanos pulls the Power Stone out of the Gauntlet and uses it in his free hand to hit Carol Danvers away. Stark looks in question at Strange, who simply raises one finger, reminding him that the one win over Thanos he foresaw is now at risk. Or is it? Stark nods. Thanos puts the Power Stone back into the Gauntlet, yelling from the gamma radiation coursing through him, until Stark makes one last attack on Thanos, pulling on the Gauntlet before Thanos punches him away.]

THANOS (2014): I am– inevitable.

[Thanos snaps his fingers, but nothing happens except a metallic "clink." He sees the Infinity Stones are missing. Tony has the stones on his own gauntlet, the gamma radiation coursing through him, to Thanos' shock.]

TONY STARK: And I– am– Iron Man.

[Tony snaps his fingers with a loud "CLANG" and a blinding flash of white. Rocket fires at a Leviathan and before it devours him, it crumbles into ash. The Black Order starts crumbling to ash. T'Challa and Quill look around in surprise; Steve looks on in exhaustion, knowing that they have won. Thanos, in horror, looks around and sees his entire army disintegrate. He looks at Steve, who just stares at him. Thanos sits down and mourns before slowly being erased from existence himself.]

[Cut back to Tony. The power of the gauntlet raw energy has left his entire right side fatally injured. He stumbles for a bit before his body collapses besides a pile of debris. Rhodey soon flies in and goes up to Tony to see his long time colleague and friend fading away. He bows his head, knowing the damage was done. Peter Parker soon flies in and sees Tony collapsed on the ground.]

PETER PARKER: Mr. Stark? [He runs up to his fallen mentor. Tears start to form in his eyes] Hey– Mr. Stark? Can you hear me? It's Peter. Hey. We won, Mr. Stark– We won, Mr. Stark. We won. You did it, sir. You did it. [He kneels]

[Tony is unresponsive. Peter breaks down and hugs him.]

PETER PARKER: I'm sorry– Tony–

[Peter is gently led aside to grieve. Pepper Potts sits in front of the fading Iron Man.]

PEPPER POTTS: Hey.

[Tony is barely able to move his head, but manages to look Pepper in the eyes]

TONY STARK: [quietly] Hey, Pep..

[Pepper places her hand on Tony's Arc Reactor and Tony rests his hand on hers. Pepper takes a good look at Tony's fatal injuries.]

[pepper kneels]

PEPPER POTTS: F.R.I.D.A.Y.?

F.R.I.D.A.Y.: Life functions critical.

[Tony smiles with tears in his eyes.]

PEPPER POTTS: Tony. Look at me. [She makes sure Tony gets a long look at her smiling face] We're gonna be okay. You can rest now.

[With that acknowledgement, Tony's arc reactor flickers off for good. Pepper can no longer contain her grief and starts crying on his shoulder. Tony Stark, Iron Man, Earth's Best Defender, died. All the heroes gather, and kneel in honor of Tony.]

[We cut to a montage showing reunions and celebrations. At Clint Barton's farm, he joyfully reunites with his family. At Peter Parker's school, Peter and Ned meet in the hallways. They share a handshake before giving each other a heartfelt hug. In San Francisco, Scott Lang watches fireworks with Cassie Lang and Hope Van Dyne. In Wakanda, T'Cahlla, Shuri, and Ramonda oversee the celebrations from their balcony. Over all this, we hear Tony's voice narrating.]

TONY STARK (voiceover): Everybody wants a happy ending, right? But it doesn't always roll that way. Maybe this time. I'm hoping if you play this back, it's in celebration. I hope families are reunited, I hope we get it back, and something like a normal version of the planet has been restored. If there ever was such a thing. God, what a world. Universe, now. If you told me ten years ago that we weren't alone, let alone, you know, to this extent, I mean, I wouldn't have been surprised. But come on, you know? The epic forces of darkness and light that have come into play. And, for better or worse, that's the reality Morgan's gonna have to find a way to grow up in.

[Cut to the Stark household. Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, and Rhodey all watch Tony's holographic message being projected from his Iron Man helmet. Tony is sitting down recording the message.]

TONY STARK (hologram): So I thought I'd probably better record a little greeting... In the case of an untimely death on my part. I mean, not that, death at any time isn't untimely. This time travel thing that we're gonna try and pull off tomorrow, it's– it's got me scratching my head about the survivability of it all. That's the thing. Then again, that's the hero gig. Part of the journey is the end. [Tony suddenly gets up walking towards his camera] What am I even trippin' for? Everything's gonna work out exactly the way it's supposed to. [He leans down and smiles. He is looking straight at Morgan] I love you 3,000.

[The message ends and the hologram cuts out.]

[Cut to outside the cottage. Pepper carries a wreath out of the house to an audience waiting outside for the intimate funeral. She lays the wreath on the lake. On top of the wreath is Tony's first arc reactor which Pepper had framed with the words "Proof That Tony Stark Has a Heart" back in 2008. The camera slowly pans to see Pepper, Morgan, Happy Hogan, & Rhodey, all being joined by Steve Rogers, Peter Parker, May Parker, Thor, Bruce Banner, Doctor Strange, Wong, Scott Lang, Hope Van Dyne, Janet Van Dyne, Hank Pym, Peter Quill, Nebula, Rocket, Teenage Groot, Drax, Mantis, T'Challa, Okoye, Shuri, Clint Barton & his family, Wanda Maximoff, Bucky Barnes, Sam Wilson, Harley Keener, Secretary Ross, Maria Hill, Carol Danvers, and Nick Fury, silently watching the wreath float away.]

[Cut to Clint and Wanda, standing by the riverside shortly afterwards.]

CLINT: You know, I wish there was a way– that I could let her know. That we won. [Looks over to Wanda.] We did it.

WANDA MAXIMOFF: She knows– They both do.

[Clint gives her a side hug and Wanda reciprocates.]

[scene cuts to Happy and Morgan.]

HAPPY: How you doing, Squirt?

MORGAN STARK: Good.

HAPPY: You good? Okay. You hungry?

MORGAN STARK: Mm. Hm.

HAPPY: What do you want?

MORGAN STARK: Cheeseburgers.

HAPPY: You know your dad liked cheeseburgers? I'm gonna get you all the cheeseburgers you want.

MORGAN STARK: Okay.

[Following the funeral for Tony, we cut to Thor and Valkyrie in New Asgard.]

VALKYRIE: So, when can we expect you back?

THOR: Um– about that–

VALKYRIE: Thor. Your people need a king.

THOR: No, they already have one.

VALKYRIE: That's funny. You're being serious?

[Thor nods his head]

THOR: It's time for me to be who I am rather than who I'm supposed to be. But you, you're a leader. That's who you are.

VALKYRIE: You know I'd make a lot of changes around here.

THOR: I'm counting on it. Your Majesty.

[Thor offers Valkyrie a farewell handshake]

VALKYRIE: What will you do?

THOR: I'm not sure. For the first time in a thousand years, I– I have no path. I do have a ride, though.

[Camera pans to the Benatar parked on the cliff]

ROCKET: Move it or lose it, hairbag.

[scene cuts to Quill searching for Gamora on the screen as Thor walks in he closes it]

THOR: Well, here we are. Tree! Good to see you. Well– [Thor removes his shades and taps Quill on the shoulder] The Asgardians of the Galaxy, back together again. Where to first? [Thor touches the screens map to pick their destination]

QUILL: Hey, just so you know, this is my ship still. I'm in charge.

THOR: I know. I know. Of course, you are. Of course.

QUILL: See, you say of course, but then you touch the map. It makes you think that maybe you didn't realize I was in charge.

THOR: Quail– you– that– that's your own–

QUILL: Quail?

THOR: –insecurities in there. Okay? I'm merely trying to be of service and assisting.

QUILL: It's Quill.

THOR: That's what I said.

DRAX: You should fight one another for the honor of leadership.

NEBULA: Sounds fair.

[Quill looks around]

QUILL: It's not necessary.

THOR: It's not.

QUILL: Okay?

ROCKET: I got some blasters, unless you guys wanna use knives.

MANTIS: [enthusiastically] Oooh, yes. Please, use knives.

DRAX: Yeah, knives.

GROOT: I am Groot.

[Both Thor and Quill laugh but Quill tries to laugh harder]

QUILL: Not necessary...

THOR: There shall be no knifing one another. Everybody knows who's in charge.

QUILL: [glances at Thor] Me, right?

THOR: Yes, you. Of course. Of course. Of course.

[Scene cuts to Bruce, Steve, Sam and Bucky at the funeral]

BRUCE BANNER: Now, remember– You have to return the stones to the exact moment you got them. Or you're gonna open up a bunch of nasty alternative realities.

STEVE ROGERS: Don't worry, Bruce. Clip all the branches.

BRUCE BANNER: You know, I tried. When I had the gauntlet, the stones, I really tried to bring her back. [Looks at Steve] I miss her, man.

STEVE ROGERS: Me, too.

Sam Wilson: You know, if you want, I can come with you.

STEVE ROGERS: You're a good man, Sam. This one's on me, though.

[Steve goes over to Bucky]

STEVE ROGERS: Don't do anything stupid 'till I get back.

BUCKY BARNES: How can I? You're taking all the stupid with you.

[They both hug each other]

BUCKY BARNES: Gonna miss you, Buddy.

STEVE ROGERS: It's gonna be okay, Buck.

[Steve goes over to the Quantum portal and dons the Quantum suit]

Sam Wilson: How long is this gonna take?

BRUCE BANNER: For him? As long as he needs. For us? Five seconds.

[Steve picks up Mjolnir (2013)]

BRUCE BANNER: Ready, Cap? Alright. We'll meet you back here, okay?

STEVE ROGERS: You bet.

BRUCE BANNER: Going quantum. Three, two, one–

[Steve disappears into the Quantum portal]

BRUCE BANNER: And returning in, five, four, three, two, one–

[Steve doesn't appear on the pad. Bruce looks around the equipment]

Sam Wilson: Where is he?

BRUCE BANNER: I don't know. He blew right by his time stamp. He should be here.

[Bucky turns around from the pad]

Sam Wilson: Well, get him back.

BRUCE BANNER: I'm trying.

Sam Wilson: Get him the hell back!

BRUCE BANNER: Hey, I said, I'm trying!

BUCKY BARNES: Sam...

[Sam walks toward Bucky. Sam, Bucky, and Bruce see old looking Steve sitting on a log. Sam and Bucky go near him.]

BUCKY BARNES: Go ahead.

[Bucky has a smile forming and looks over to Sam. He walks towards the old man and instantly recognizes the now-elderly Steve Rogers]

Sam Wilson: Cap?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Hi, Sam.

[Old Steve looks over to Sam]

Sam Wilson: So did something go wrong, or did something go right?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Well, after I put the stones back, I thought, maybe I'll try some of that life Tony was telling me to get.

Sam Wilson: How'd that work out for you?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It was beautiful.

Sam Wilson: I'm happy for you. Truly.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Thank you.

Sam Wilson: Only thing bumming me out is the fact I have to live in a world without Captain America.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: Oh, That reminds me. [brings out his shield.] Try it on.

[Sam look over to Bucky, who nods, and Sam holds Steve's shield.]

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: How does it feel?

Sam Wilson: Like it's someone else's.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: It isn't.

[Sam tries to hold back tears]

Sam Wilson: Thank you. I'll do my best.

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: That's why it's yours. [shakes Sam's hand]

Sam Wilson: [seeing elderly Steve's wedding ring] You wanna tell me about her?

(OLD) STEVE ROGERS: [smiling] No. No, I don't think I will. [Last lines]

[In the final scenes, Steve has time traveled back to the 1940s to be with Peggy Carter. They are seen dancing to "It's Been a Long, Long Time" in their home, and they end with a kiss.]

[In the very end of the film, the sound of hammering metal is heard in the background. A dedication to Tony Stark and a callback to the first Iron Man]

[Closing Title: Marvel Studios]

[Screen Title: Distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures]

The End. 

    [1991, a HYDRA base in a snowy landscape. A man enters a bunker and removes a red book marked with a black star.]
    [A technician raises a cylindrical chamber, revealing Bucky Barnes, aka the Winter Soldier.]
    [Bucky Barnes is secured in a chair, a mechanical device either side of his head causing him to scream in pain.]
    Vasily Karpov: [speaking Russian] Желание. Ржавый. Семнадцать. Рассвет. Печь. Девять. Добросердечный. Возвращение на родину. Один. Грузовой вагон.[1] ([subtitled] Longing. Rusted. Seventeen. Daybreak. Furnace. Nine. Benign. Homecoming. One. Freight car.) Доброе утро, Солдат. ([subtitled] Good morning, Soldier.)
    [Bucky Hesitates]
    Bucky Barnes: Я готов отвечать. ([subtitled] Ready to comply.)
    Vasily Karpov: У меня есть для тебя миссия. Санкционируй и Извлекай. Без свидетелей.([subtitled] I have a mission for you. Sanction and extract. No witnesses.)
    [Night. A car is driving down a dirt road alone. The Winter Soldier is waiting at the side of the road with his motorcycle. As the car passes, the Winter Soldier follows. He comes alongside the car and disables it. It slams into a tree. The Winter Soldier brings the motorcycle back around and climbs off. He walks to the car trunk and rips it open, revealing a silver case containing several blue packets]
    [Back at the HYDRA base]
    Vasily Karpov: Отлично, Солдат. ([subtitled] Well done, Soldier.)

    [Marvel Opening Credits]
    [Lagos, present day]
    [Wanda Maximoff, aka Scarlet Witch, adds sugar to a cup and stirs it. She looks around.]
    Steve Rogers: [on radio] All right, what do you see?
    Wanda Maximoff: Standard beat cops. Small station. Quiet street. It’s a good target.
    Steve Rogers: There’s an ATM in the south corner, which means . . .
    Wanda Maximoff: Cameras.
    Steve Rogers: Both cross streets are one way.
    Wanda Maximoff: So, compromised escape routes.
    Steve Rogers: Means our guy doesn't care about being seen, he isn't afraid to make a mess on the way out. You see that Range Rover halfway up the block?
    Wanda Maximoff: Yeah, the red one? It’s cute.
    [Camera pans to show Natasha sitting two tables from Wanda]
    Natasha Romanoff: [on radio] It's also bulletproof, which means private security, which means more guns, which means more headaches for somebody. Probably us.
    Wanda Maximoff: You guys know I can move things with my mind, right?
    Natasha Romanoff: Looking over your shoulder needs to become second nature.
    Sam Wilson: Anybody ever tell you you're a little paranoid?
    Natasha Romanoff: Not to my face. Why? Did you hear something?
    Steve Rogers: Eyes on target, folks. This is the best lead we've had on Rumlow in six months. I don't want to lose him.
    Sam Wilson: If he sees us coming that won't be a problem. He kind of hates us.
    [A garbage truck is pushing its way through traffic, with no regard to pedestrians or other vehicles]
    Steve Rogers: Sam, see that garbage truck? Tag it.
    [From the back of Sam’s Falcon jet pack, a small drone, launches and flies down to scan the garbage truck.]
    Sam Wilson: Give me X-ray.
    [weight analysis: Cargo Weight: 13825 kgs. Max capacity.]
    Sam Wilson: That truck’s loaded for max weight. And the driver’s armed.
    Natasha Romanoff: It’s a battering ram.
    Steve Rogers: Go now.
    Wanda Maximoff: What?
    Steve Rogers: He’s not hitting the police.
    [INSTITUTE FOR INFECTIOUS DISEASES]
    [A man is sitting in the guard station. He looks over as the garbage truck is coming towards the gate. The driver jumps out, and the truck slams into the gateway. Two trucks rush into the compound through the newly-made entrance.]
    [Soldiers in black armor emerge from the trucks, firing their rifles around the courtyard. Four soldiers fire gas canisters into the building. Soldiers wearing gas masks enter.]
    [Steve arrives and takes out several of the soldiers.]
    Steve Rogers: Body armor, AR-15's. I make seven hostiles.
    [Sam flies in and up to a rooftop, spinning and using his wings to block gunfire. He takes out two soldiers.]
    Sam Wilson: I make 5.
    [Wanda arrives and flies over the rooftop and into the courtyard, blocking fire with her powers. She takes control of one soldier and lifts him upward.]
    Wanda Maximoff: Sam.
    [Sam glides down from the rooftop, catching the soldier on one of his wings.]
    Sam Wilson: Four.
    [Sam's drone flies by, scanning the inside of the building.]
    Sam Wilson: Rumlow’s on the third floor.
    Steve Rogers: Wanda, just like we practiced.
    Wanda Maximoff: What about the gas?
    Steve Rogers: Get it out.
    [Wanda uses her powers to lift Steve up and through the window. He grabs a soldier and pulls off their gas mask]
    [Rumlow is inside. He punches down the door. He knocks aside a technician and enters a room with a container labeled "bio-hazard."]
    Brock Rumlow: Pack it up.
    [In another area, Steve is behind a pillar. He throws his shield, and it bounces off the soldier and back to Steve. Meanwhile, Wanda is now using her powers to remove the gas from the building. Sam is exchanging fire with several soldiers.]
    [Rumlow walks outside onto a balcony and sees that Steve’s team is here.]
    Brock Rumlow: He’s here.
    [Inside the building, Steve sees the vial missing.]
    Steve Rogers: Rumlow has a biological weapon.
    [Natasha is riding in on a motorcycle.]
    Natasha Romanoff: (on radio) I’m on it.
    [She jumps off the motorcycle and it skids toward a soldier. She takes out soldiers through hand-to-hand combat. Rumlow comes up behind her and grabs her collar, dragging her onto an armored vehicle. She electrocutes him.]
    Brock Rumlow: I don't work like that no more.
    [He throws her through the roof hatch into an armored vehicle, drops in a grenade, and shuts the hatch.]
    Brock Rumlow: Fire in the hole.
    Mercenary: No!
    [Natasha takes out the soldiers inside, then grabs one to shield herself from the grenade. The doors blow open and she is thrown out.]
    [Steve runs out onto the balcony and spots Rumlow.]
    Steve Rogers: Sam. He's in an AFV heading north.
    [Inside the AFV, Rumlow secures the biological weapon and hands it to a soldier.]
    Brock Rumlow: Take this to the airstrip. We're not gonna outrun them. Lose the truck.
    [The truck crashes into a nearby structure and Rumlow and the soldiers emerge.]
    Mercenary #1: Where are you going to meet us?
    Brock Rumlow: I’m not.
    [Sam lands on the roof of a structure. He scans the area with his goggles.]
    Sam Wilson: I got four, they're splitting up.
    [Natasha rides through the crowd, back on her motorcycle. She abandons it again and runs across the hoods of cars, in pursuit.]
    Natasha Romanoff: I got the two on the left.
    [Steve is also running across cars. He spots a vest in the middle of a crowd.]
    Steve Rogers: They ditched their gear. It's a shell game now. One of them has the payload.
    [Someone throws a bomb at Steve. It sticks on his shield. Steve throws it in the air and the bomb detonates safely away from citizens. Rumlow comes up behind Steve and punches him in the back.]
    Brock Rumlow: There you are, you son of a bitch. I’ve been waiting for this!
    [Meanwhile, Sam is still chasing the other mercenaries. Sam flies up and takes out his two, then searches their bags for the payload.]
    Sam Wilson: He doesn't have it. I’m empty.
    [Natasha is chasing the soldiers through the crowd.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Out of the way!
    [She tackles one soldier and engages him in combat. When the other soldier arrives, she hurls a basket at him to distract him. She uses her skills to fight them and ends up face-to-face with one soldier. They point their guns at each other. A moment passes. Then, the other soldier produces the vial.]
    Mercenary #1: Drop it. Or I’ll drop this. Drop it!
    Mercenary #2: He'll do it!
    [Redwing descends and fires at the soldier with the vial. He drops, and in the moment of distraction, Natasha fires at the other soldier, then catches the falling vial.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Payload secure. Thanks, Sam.
    Sam Wilson: Don't thank me.
    Natasha Romanoff: I’m… not thanking that thing.
    Sam Wilson: His name is Redwing.
    Natasha Romanoff: I'm still not thanking it.
    Sam Wilson: He's cute. Go ahead, pet him.
    [Steve and Rumlow are still fighting, neither one seeming to have the upper hand.]
    Brock Rumlow: Come on!
    [Rumlow pins Steve to a building and extends a blade from one of his gauntlets.]
    Brock Rumlow: This is for dropping a building on my face.
    [Steve grabs Rumlow's arm and pulls the gauntlet off, only for Rumlow to reveal another knife. But Steve bests him. Defeated, on his knees, Rumlow removes his mask, revealing a scarred face.]
    Brock Rumlow: I think I look pretty good, all things considered.
    Steve Rogers: Who's your buyer?
    Brock Rumlow: You know, he knew you. You pal, your buddy, your Bucky.
    Steve Rogers: What did you say?
    Brock Rumlow: He remembered you. I was there. He got all weepy about it. Till they put his brain back in a blender. He wanted you to know something. He said to me, "Please tell Rogers. When you gotta go, you gotta go." And you're coming with me.
    [He activates his bomb vest and Steve flinches as Rumlow's armor ignites, but Wanda keeps the blast contained around Rumlow who grimaces in agony. She lifts him into the air before she loses control, and the explosion finally blossoms, devastating entire floors of a nearby office building. Wanda sees what happened and is scarred by it.]
    Steve Rogers: Oh my . . . [Steve stares up.] Sam . . . We need . . . Fire and Rescue . . . on the south side of the building. We gotta get up there.

    [Soft piano is playing. Tony Stark's mother, Maria, sits at a piano. A young Tony is on the couch.]
    Maria Stark: Try to remember the kind of September. When grass was green . . . [She stops singing as Howard Stark walks in, but continues playing.] Wake up, dear, and say goodbye to your father.
    Howard Stark: Who's the homeless person on the couch?
    [Tony, wearing a Santa hat, staggers to his feet and chuckles.]
    Young Tony Stark: This is why I love coming home for Christmas . . . right before you leave town.
    Maria Stark: Be nice, dear, he's been studying abroad.
    Howard Stark: Really, which broad? What's her name?
    Young Tony Stark: Candice.
    [Howard pulls of Tony's hat.]
    Howard Stark: Do me a favor? Try not to burn the house down before Monday.
    Young Tony Stark: Okay, so it's Monday. That is good to know. I will plan my toga party accordingly. Where you going?
    Maria Stark: Your father's flying us to the Bahamas for a little getaway.
    Howard Stark: We might have to make a quick stop.
    Young Tony Stark: At the Pentagon. Right? Don't worry, you're gonna love the holiday menu at the commissary.
    [Maria stops playing the piano.]
    Howard Stark: You know, they say sarcasm is a metric for potential. If that's true, you'll be a great man some day. I'll get the bags.
    [He walks out of the room, and Maria stands up.]
    Maria Stark: He does miss you when you are not here. And frankly, you're going to miss us. Because this is the last time we're all going to be together. You know what's about to happen. Say something. If you don't, you'll regret it.
    [Howard walks back in.]
    Young Tony Stark: I love you, Dad. And I know you did the best you could.
    [Maria leans in to kiss Tony on the cheek, and when she leans back, an older Tony Stark is standing in the background. Howard and Maria walk out, leaving the two Tonys.]
    Tony Stark: That's how I wished it happened. Binarily Augmented Retro-Framing, or BARF. God, I gotta work on that acronym. An extremely costly method of hijacking the hippocampus to . . . clear traumatic memories. Huh.
    [He blows on a candle and everything around him shimmers, then starts to dissolve. It's a hologram.]
    Tony Stark: It doesn't change the fact that they never made it to the airport . . . or all the things I did to avoid processing my grief, but . . . [He takes off his glasses.] Plus, 611 million dollars for my little therapeutic experiment? No one in the right mind would've ever funded it.
    [He is standing on a stage in front of a large crowd. A sign reads MIT Alumni Honors: Tony Stark.]
    Tony Stark: Help me out, what's the MIT mission statement? "To generate, disseminate . . . and preserve knowledge. And work with others . . . to bring it to bear on the world's great challenges." Well, you are the others. And, quiet as it's kept . . . the challenges facing you are the greatest mankind's ever known. Plus, most of you are broke.
    [The crowd chuckles.]
    Tony Stark: Oh, I'm sorry. Rather, you were. As of this moment . . . every student has been made an equal recipient of the Inaugural September Foundation Grant. As in . . . all of your projects have just been approved and funded.
    [The crowd breaks out in applause and cheering.]
    Tony Stark: No strings, no taxes… just re-frame the future! Starting now.
    [The teleprompter above the audience reads. 'Now I would like to introduce the head of the foundation: Pepper Potts.' Tony stares at it sadly.]
    Tony Stark: Go break some eggs.
    [He exits the stage.]
    MIT teacher: Wow. Wow. That uh . . . that took my breathe away. Oh, Tony! So generous. So much money! Wow! Out of curiosity . . . will any portion of that grant be made available to faculty? I know, "Ooh, gross," but hear me out. I have got this killer idea for a self-cooking hot dog. Basically, chemical detonator embedded . . .
    [Tony is not listening.]
    Tony Stark: Restroom's this way, yeah?
    MIT teacher: Yeah. Embedded in the meat shaft.
    Stark's Assistant: Mr. Stark, I am so sorry about the teleprompter. I didn't know Miss Potts had cancelled. They didn't have time to fix it.
    Tony Stark: It's . . . fine. I'll be right back.
    MIT teacher: We'll catch up later.
    [Tony steps into a quiet corridor. He loiters by the men's room, then glances back at the stage door before walking towards the elevator. A woman in sober clothes is also waiting. Tony stops and turns his back to the wall.]
    Mrs. Spencer: That was nice, what you did for those young people.
    Tony Stark: Ah, they deserve it. Plus, it helps ease my conscience.
    Mrs. Spencer: They say there's a correlation between generosity and guilt. But if you've got the money . . . break as many eggs as you like. Right?
    [He narrows his eyes and half smiles, then turns to face the elevator. He looks surprised to find the button unlit and pushes it himself.]
    Tony Stark: Are you going up?
    Mrs. Spencer: I'm right where I want to be.
    [She digs in her handbag, Tony grabs her wrist. He realizes what he's done.]
    Tony Stark: Okay, okay. Hey! Sorry, it's an occupational hazard.
    Mrs. Spencer: I work for the State Department. Human Resources. I know it's boring . . . but it enabled me to raise a son. I'm very proud of what he grew up to be.
    [She shoves a photo at him.]
    Mrs Spencer: His name was Charlie Spencer. You murdered him. In Sokovia. Not that it matters in the least to you. You think you fight for us. You just fight for yourself.
    [Tony shakes his head.]
    Mrs Spencer: Who's going to avenge my son, Stark? He's dead . . . and I blame you.
    [She turns and walks away, leaving Tony standing by the elevator with a grim frown.]

    [At the Avengers Compound. Steve catches Wanda watching a news report on the Lagos attack and how they blame her for it.]
    News Anchor #1: 11 Wakandans were among those killed during a confrontation between the Avengers and a group of mercenaries in Lagos, Nigeria, last month. The traditionally reclusive Wakandans were on an outreach mission in Lagos when the attack occurred.
    King T'Chaka: Our people's blood is spilled on foreign soil. Not only because of the actions of criminals, but by the indifference of those pledged to stop them. Victory at the expense of the innocent, is no victory at all.
    News Anchor #1: The Wakanda king went on to . . .
    [Steve, who was watching the news, turns his computer off, but sound drifts toward him from another room.]
    News anchor #2: They are operating outside and above the international law. Because that's the reality, if we don't respond to acts like these.
    [Wanda is sitting on her bed, watching the news on her TV.]
    News Anchor #2 What legal authority does an enhanced individual like Wanda Maximoff have to operate in Nigeri -
    [The TV turns off. Steve sets the remote down and leans on the door frame.]
    Wanda Maximoff: It's my fault.
    Steve Rogers: That's not true.
    Wanda Maximoff: Turn the TV back on. They're being very specific.
    Steve Rogers: I should've clocked that bomb vest long before you had to deal with it.
    [He walks over.]
    Steve Rogers: Rumlow said "Bucky" and . . . all of a sudden I was a 16-year-old kid again, in Brooklyn. [He sits beside Wanda.]
    Steve Rogers: And people died. It's on me.
    Wanda Maximoff: It's on both of us.
    Steve Rogers: This job . . . we try to save as many people as we can. Sometimes that doesn't mean everybody. But if we can't find a way to live with that, next time . . . maybe nobody gets saved.
    [Vision materializes through the wall. Wanda starts.]
    [Vision interrupts Wanda and Steve by walking through the wall into Wanda’s room]
    Wanda Maximoff: Vis! We talked about this.
    Vision: Yes, but the door was open so I assumed that . . .
    [He gestures at the door and stops.]
    Vision: Captain Rogers wished to know when Mr. Stark was arriving.
    Steve Rogers: Thank you. We'll be right down.
    Vision: I'll . . . use the door. Oh, and apparently, he's brought a guest.
    Steve Rogers: We know who it is?
    Vision: The Secretary of State.

    [The Secretary of State, Thaddeus Ross, is standing at the head of a table. Rhodey, Natasha, Steve, Tony, Sam, Vision, and Wanda are gathered around.]
    [The Secretary of State Thaddeus Ross has summoned the Avengers to a meeting]
    Secretary Ross: Five years ago, I had a heart attack. I dropped right in the middle of my back-swing. Turned out it was the best round of my life, because after 13 hours of surgery and a triple bypass . . . I found something 40 years in the Army had never taught me: Perspective. The world owes the Avengers an un-payable debt. You have fought for us, protected us, risked your lives . . . but while a great many people see you as heroes, there are some . . . who would prefer the word "vigilantes".
    Natasha Romanoff: And what word would you use, Mr. Secretary?
    Secretary Ross: How about "dangerous"? What would you call a group of US-based, enhanced individuals who routinely ignore sovereign borders and inflict their will wherever they choose and who, frankly, seem unconcerned about what they leave behind?
    [Ross activates a screen behind him. News footage from past Avengers and SHIELD matters flash on the screen as he speaks.]
    Secretary Ross: New York.
    [A Chitauri leviathan. Terrified citizens. A soldier firing a gun. The Hulk smashes into a building and sends a dust cloud to engulf the camera.]
    [Rhodey looks regretful. He glances behind him at Natasha.]
    Secretary Ross: Washington DC.
    [The three Insight helicarriers, firing on each other. The destroyed Triskelion. A helicarrier crashing into the Potomac and throwing up a massive wave, engulfing citizens and the camera.]
    [Sam looks down.]
    Secretary Ross: Sokovia.
    [Terrified citizens, running. The city rising. A building falling over.]
    [Wanda stares at the screen, as does Tony.]
    Secretary Ross: Lagos.
    [The burning building. Paramedics moving a body. A dead girl.]
    [Wanda is particularly affected by the footage from Lagos. Steve sees this and intervenes.]
    Steve Rogers: Okay. That's enough.
    [Secretary Ross nods to an aide and the images disappear.]
    Secretary Ross: For the past four years, you've operated with unlimited power and no supervision. That's an arrangement the governments of the world can no longer tolerate. But I think we have a solution. [he places a thick document on the desk and passes it to Wanda]
    [An aide hands him a thick book, which Ross slides across the table to Wanda. She picks it up, then slides it to Rhodey.]
    Secretary Ross: The Sokovia Accords. Approved by 117 countries . . . it states that the Avengers shall no longer be a private organization. Instead, they'll operate under the supervision of a United Nations panel, only when and if that panel deems it necessary.
    Steve Rogers: The Avengers were formed to make the world a safer place. I feel we've done that.
    Secretary Ross: Tell me, Captain, do you know where Thor and Banner are right now?
    [Steve looks up and meets Ross's eyes.]
    Secretary Ross: If I misplaced a couple of 30 megaton nukes . . . you can bet there'd be consequences. Compromise. Reassurance. That's how the world works. Believe me, this is the middle ground.
    James Rhodes: So, there are contingencies.
    Secretary Ross: Three days from now, the UN meets in Vienna to ratify the Accords.
    [Steve glances at Tony.]
    Secretary Ross: Talk it over.
    Natasha Romanoff: And if we come to a decision you don't like?
    Secretary Ross: Then you retire.
    [Natasha stifles a smile.]

    [Cleveland.]
    [Vasily Karpov sits, eating at the table in a cluttered house. He hears the sound of something crashing outside and peers through drawn blinds. Outside, Helmut Zemo stands by his car, the front end crumpled against Karpov's car.]
    Helmut Zemo: Hello? Is this your car out front?
    [Zemo comes to the door.]
    Helmut Zemo: I jumped the curb.
    [Karpov eyes his gun nearby.]
    Helmut Zemo: Maybe we could take care of it ourselves. If you wanna call the cops, tha--that's okay too, I guess.
    Vasily Karpov: No. No cops.
    Helmut Zemo: Thank you.
    [Karpov slides a heavy duty lock and opens the door. Zemo punches him.]
    [Zemo is using a sledgehammer to smash a hole in the wall. He retrieves a large box from inside the hole and tips the contents onto a table. Karpov is hanging upside down, tied to pipes in his basement. There are various documents and the red book with the star on the cover. He holds the red book for a moment then opens a file. Inside is a photo of Karpov in his military uniform and beret.]
    Helmut Zemo: You have kept your looks, Colonel. Congratulations.
    [Karpov's head is in a sink, which is filling with water.]
    Helmut Zemo: "Mission report: December 16, 1991."
    Vasily Karpov: Who are you?
    Helmut Zemo: My name is Zemo. I will repeat my question. Mission report. December 16, 1991.
    Vasily Karpov: How did you find me?
    Helmut Zemo: When SHIELD fell, Black Widow released HYDRA files to the public. Millions of pages much of it encrypted, not easy to decipher. But . . . I have experience. And patience. A man can do anything if he has those.
    Vasily Karpov: What do you want?
    Helmut Zemo: Mission report. December 16. 1991.
    Vasily Karpov: Go . . . to . . . hell.
    [Zemo goes to lean on the sink as water continues to flow into it. He turns off the tap and studies Karpov's upside down face.]
    Helmut Zemo: HYDRA deserves its place on the ash heap. So your death would not bother me. But I'd have to use this book . . . and other bloodier methods to find what I need. I don't look forward to that. You'd only be dying for . . . your pride.
    [Zemo stares at Karpov then nods resignedly. He turns the tap back on. The water is up to Karpov's eyes. Zemo watches the water level rise.]
    Vasily Karpov: Hail HYDRA.
    [Holding the red book Zemo walks away. Karpov twitches and struggles in his bindings.]

    [The Avengers are gathered at HQ. Steve is sitting, studying the Accords, while Rhodey and Sam argue behind him.]
    James Rhodes: Secretary Ross has a Congressional Medal of Honor, which is one more than you have.
    Sam Wilson: So let's say we agree to this thing. How long is it gonna be before they LoJack us like a bunch of common criminals?
    James Rhodes: A 117 countries want to sign this. 117, Sam, and you're just like, "No, that's cool. We got it. "
    Sam Wilson: How long are you going to play both sides?
    Vision: I have an equation.
    Sam Wilson: Oh, this will clear it up.
    Vision: In the eight years since Mr. Stark announced himself as Iron Man, the number of known enhanced persons has grown exponentially. And during the same period, the number of potentially world-ending events has risen at a commensurate rate.
    Steve Rogers: Are you saying it's our fault?
    Vision: I'm saying there may be a causality. Our very strength invites challenge. Challenge incites conflict. And conflict . . . breeds catastrophe. Oversight . . . oversight is not an idea that can be dismissed out of hand.
    James Rhodes: Boom.
    [Tony is lying on the couch. When Natasha speaks, he looks at her.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Tony. You are being uncharacteristically non-hyper-verbal.
    Steve Rogers: It's because he's already made up his mind.
    Tony Stark: Boy, you know me so well.
    [He gets up and winces, rubbing the back of his head.]
    Tony Stark: Actually, I'm nursing an electromagnetic headache.
    [He walks to the kitchen and grabs a mug.]
    Tony Stark: That's what's going on, Cap. It's just pain. It's discomfort. Who's putting coffee grounds in the disposal? Am I running a bed and breakfast for a biker gang?
    [He puts his phone in a basket and taps it.The phone projects an image of a smiling young man. He looks down, then back up, and pretends to notice the picture for the first time.]
    Tony Stark: Oh, that's Charles Spencer, by the way. He's a great kid. Computer engineering degree, 3.6 GPA. Had a floor level gig at Intel planned for the fall. But first, he wanted to put a few miles on his soul, before he parked it behind a desk. See the world. Maybe be of service. Charlie didn't want to go to Vegas or Fort Lauderdale, which is what I would do. He didn't go to Paris or Amsterdam, which sounds fun. He decided to spend his summer building sustainable housing for the poor. Guess where, Sokovia.
    [The others look affected by this .]
    Tony Stark: He wanted to make a difference, I suppose. I mean, we won't know because we dropped a building on him while we were kicking ass. [He takes a pill with some coffee, then faces the others.]
    Tony Stark: There's no decision-making process here. We need to be put in check! Whatever form that takes, I'm game. If we can't accept limitations, if we're boundary-less, we're no better than the bad guys.
    Steve Rogers: Tony, someone dies on your watch, you don't give up.
    Tony Stark: Who said we're giving up?
    Steve Rogers: We are if we're not taking responsibility for our actions. This document just shifts the blames.
    James Rhodes: I'm sorry. Steve. That - that is dangerously arrogant. This is the United Nations we're talking about. It's not the World Security Council, it's not SHIELD, it's not HYDRA.
    Steve Rogers: No, but it's run by people with agendas, and agendas change.
    Tony Stark: That's good. That's why I'm here. When I realized what my weapons were capable of in the wrong hands, I shut it down and stop manufacturing.
    Steve Rogers: Tony, you chose to do that. If we sign this, we surrender our right to choose. What if this panel sends us somewhere we don't think we should go? What if there is somewhere we need to go, and they don't let us? We may not be perfect, but the safest hands are still our own.
    Tony Stark: If we don't do this now, it's gonna be done to us later. That's the fact. That won't be pretty.
    Wanda Maximoff: You're saying they'll come for me.
    Vision: We would protect you.
    Natasha Romanoff: Maybe Tony's right.
    [Tony looks at her, surprised.]
    Natasha Romanoff: If we have one hand on the wheel, we can still steer. If we take it off -
    Sam Wilson: Aren't you the same woman who told the government to kiss her ass a few years ago?
    Natasha Romanoff: I'm just . . . I'm reading the terrain. We have made . . . some very public mistakes. We need to win their trust back.
    Tony Stark: Focus up. I'm sorry, did I just mishear you or did you agree with me?
    Natasha Romanoff: Oh, I want to take it back now.
    Tony Stark: No, no, no. You can't retract it. Thank you. Unprecedented. Okay, case closed--I win.
    [Steve's phone buzzes, and he pulls it out to check it. A text message reads: 'She's gone. In her sleep.']
    Steve Rogers: I have to go.
    [Steve gets up sharply, drops the Accords on the coffee table, and goes downstairs. He stops at the bottom of the stairs, leans against the banister, and bows his head.]

    [London.]
    [A cathedral, packed with mourners. A choir is singing. Steve is one of six pallbearers carrying a coffin draped with the Union Jack. His eyes are red--he's been crying.]
    [At the altar, a candle burns by a framed photograph of Peggy Carter in a military uniform. The label reads "Margaret 'Peggy' Carter". The priest addresses the mourners.]
    Priest: And now, I would like to invite Sharon Carter to come up and say a few words.
    [Agent 13, Steve's "neighbor" from DC, steps up to the podium.]
    [Steve sits beside Sam in a pew at the front. Steve is looking down and doesn't see Sharon walk up. Sam is watching, and nudges Steve. He looks up to see Sharon, who glances at Steve and takes a breath.]
    Sharon Carter: Margaret Carter was known to most as a founder of SHIELD . . . but I just knew her as Aunt Peggy.
    [Steve realizes who exactly Sharon is, and takes a surprised breath.]
    Sharon Carter: She had a photograph in her office. Aunt Peggy standing next to JFK. As a kid, that was pretty cool. But it was a lot to live up to. Which is why I never told anyone we were related.
    [She looks directly at Steve.]
    Sharon Carter: I asked her once how she managed to master diplomacy and espionage in a time when no one wanted to see a woman succeed at either. And she said, compromise where you can. But where you can't, don't. Even if everyone is telling you that something wrong is something right. Even if the whole world is telling you to move . . . it is your duty to plant yourself like a tree, look them in they eye and say " No, you move."

    [Later, Steve stands alone in the isle, still dressed in black. Natasha to him and he turns to her. He begins to speak without any introduction]
    Steve Rogers: When I came out of the ice, I thought everyone I had known was gone. Then I found out that she was alive. I was just lucky to have her.
    Natasha Romanoff: She had you back, too.
    Steve Rogers: Who else signed?
    Natasha Romanoff: Tony. Rhodey. Vision.
    Steve Rogers: Clint?
    Natasha Romanoff: Says he's retired.
    [She smiles slightly.]
    Steve Rogers: Wanda?
    Natasha Romanoff: TBD (To Be Determined). I'm off to Vienna for the signing of the Accords. There's plenty of room on the jet.
    [Steve sighs and bows his head.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Just because it's the path of least resistance doesn't mean it's the wrong path. Staying together is more important than how we stay together.
    [Natasha almost seems to be convincing herself.]
    Steve Rogers: What are we giving up to do it?
    [She sighs. He shakes his head, unconvinced.]
    Steve Rogers: I'm sorry, Nat. I can't sign it.
    Natasha Romanoff: I know.
    Steve Rogers: Then what are you doing here?
    Natasha Romanoff: I didn't want you to be alone.
    [She pulls him in for a hug.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Come here.

    [Vienna.]
    [The United Nations, a modern complex of interestingly-shaped high rise buildings.]
    News Anchor #3: At a special United Nations conference 117 countries have come together to ratify the Sokovia Accords.
    [T'Challa wears a sharp suit and stands, looking through a glass wall.]
    UN staffer: Excuse me, Miss Romanoff?
    Natasha Romanoff: Yes?
    UN staffer: These need your signature. [T'Challa looks over at Natasha.] Thank you.
    Natasha Romanoff: Thanks.
    T'Challa: I suppose neither of us is used to the spotlight.
    Natasha Romanoff: Oh, well, it's not always so flattering.
    T'Challa: You seem to be doing alright so far. Considering your last trip to Capitol Hill . . . I wouldn't think you would be particularly comfortable in this company.
    Natasha Romanoff: Well, I'm not.
    T'Challa: That alone makes me glad you're here, Miss Romanoff.
    Natasha Romanoff: Why? You don't approve of all this?
    T'Challa: The Accords, yes. The politics, not really. Two people in a room can get more done than a hundred.
    King T'Chaka: Unless you need to move a piano.
    T'Challa: Father.
    King T'Chaka: Son. Miss Romanoff.
    Natasha Romanoff: King T'Chaka. Please, allow me to apologize for what happened in Nigeria.
    King T'Chaka: Thank you. Thank you for agreeing to all this. I'm sad to hear that Captain Rogers will not be joining us today.
    Natasha Romanoff: Yes, so am I.
    Man on speakers: If everyone could please be seated. This assembly is now in session.
    T'Challa: That is the future calling. Such a pleasure.
    Natasha Romanoff: Thank you. [Natasha goes.]
    King T'Chaka: For a man who disapproves of diplomacy, you're getting quite good at it.
    T'Challa: I'm happy, Father.
    King T'Chaka: Thank you.
    T'Challa: Thank you.
    King T'Chaka: When stolen Wakandan vibranium was used to make a terrible weapon, we in Wakanda were forced to question our legacy. Those men and women killed in Nigeria, were part of a goodwill mission from a country too long in the shadows. We will not, however, let misfortune drive us back. We will fight to improve the world we wish to join. I am grateful to the Avengers for supporting this initiative. [T'Challa spots something outside.] Wakanda is proud to extend its hand in peace.
    T'Challa: EVERYBODY GET DOWN!
    [An enormous explosion goes off between two buildings and destroys the conference hall. T'Challa finds his father lying on the floor with his eyes closed. He grabs his father's wrist and feels for a pulse, but his father lies still. Devastated T'Challa lies across his father. He lifts him up and rocks him in his arms.]

    [A hotel.]
    Sharon Carter: My mom tried to talk me out of enlisting, but, um, not Aunt Peggy. She bought me my first thigh holster.
    Steve Rogers: Very practical.
    Sharon Carter: And stylish. [Sharon and Steve wait by an elevator. They stand facing each other.]
    Steve Rogers: CIA has you stationed over here now?
    Sharon Carter: In Berlin, Joint Terrorism Task Force.
    Steve Rogers: Right. Right. Sounds fun.
    Sharon Carter: I know, right?
    Steve Rogers: [Steve nods and smiles at Sharon.] I've been meaning to ask you. When you were spying on me from across the hall . . . .
    Sharon Carter: You mean when I was doing my job.
    Steve Rogers: Did Peggy know?
    Sharon Carter: She kept so many secrets. I didn't want her to have one from you. [The elevator arrives.] Thanks for walking me back.
    Steve Rogers: Sure. [Sam comes over.]
    Sam Wilson: Steve. There's something you gotta see.
    News anchor #4: A bomb hidden in a news van . . .
    Sharon Carter: Who's coordinating?
    News anchor #4: . . . ripped through the UN building in Vienna.
    Sharon Carter: Good. They're solid. Forensics?
    News anchor #4: More than 70 people have been injured. At least 12 are dead, including Wakanda's King T'Chaka. Officials have released a video of a suspect who they have identified as James Buchanan Barnes, the Winter Soldier. The infamous HYDRA agent, linked to numerous acts of terrorism and political assassinations.
    Sharon Carter: I have to go to work.

    [Fire crews hose down the buildings. A red and white medical chopper flies overhead.]
    Sharon Carter: Call MI-6, see if we can get Micro Forensics to hurry this up. We need the whole team here in two hours or it's not worth it. [Sharon strides through with a man in a green jumpsuit. They pass T'Challa who sits on a bench looking stunned. There's a cut on his head. Natasha sits on the next bench along.]
    Natasha Romanoff: I'm very sorry.
    T'Challa: [He glances at her. He's holding an ornate silver ring which he toys with between his fingers.] In my culture death is not the end. It's more of a . . . stepping-off point. You reach out with both hands and Bast and Sekhmet, they lead you into the green veldt where . . . you can run forever.
    Natasha Romanoff: That sounds very peaceful.
    T'Challa: My father thought so. [He puts the ring on his finger.] I am not my father.
    Natasha Romanoff: T'Challa. Task force will decide who brings in Barnes.
    T'Challa: [He clenches his fist.] Don't bother, Miss Romanoff. I'll kill him myself. [He walks away.]
    [Steve phones Natasha. He's standing on the street in a cap and dark glasses.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Yeah?
    Steve Rogers: You alright?
    Natasha Romanoff: Ah, yeah, thanks. I got lucky. [Frowning she looks around, then stands up.] I know how much Barnes means to you. I really do. Stay home. You'll only make this worse. For all of us. Please.
    Steve Rogers: Are you saying you'll arrest me?
    Natasha Romanoff: No. Someone will. If you interfere. That's how it works now.
    Steve Rogers: If he's this far gone, Nat, I should be the one to bring him in.
    Natasha Romanoff: Why?
    Steve Rogers: Because I'm the one least likely to die trying. [Not far away Steve ends the call.]
    Natasha Romanoff: Shit.
    [Steve approaches Sam sitting at the counter of a coffee shop.]
    Sam Wilson: She tell you to stay out of it? [He's also in a cap and shades.] Might have a point.
    Steve Rogers: He'd do it for me.
    Sam Wilson: 1945, maybe. I just want to make sure we considered all our options. The people that shoot at you usually wind up shooting at me. [Sharon arrives by Steve.]
    Sharon Carter: Tips have been pouring in since that footage went public. Everybody thinks the Winter soldier goes to their gym. Most of it's noise. Except for this. [She slides Steve a file.] My boss expects a briefing, pretty much now . . . so that's all the head start you're gonna get.
    Steve Rogers: Thank you.
    Sharon Carter: And you're gonna have to hurry. We have orders to shoot on sight.

    [Zemo sits in a hotel room. He reads from Karpov's red book.]
    Helmut Zemo: Возвращение на Родину. Возвращение на Родину. Один. Один. Грузовой вагон… Грузовой вагон. Грузов- ([subtitled] Homecoming. One. One. Fright Car.) [Knocking at the door. He puts the book in a drawer and goes to the door. He reaches for a gun tucked in the back of his trouser and cocks it.]
    German Innkeeper: Herr Müller, ich habe Ihr Frühstück. ([subtitled] Mr. Müller. I have your breakfast.) [Zemo opens the door.]
    Helmut Zemo: Ich konnte es schon von weitem riechen. Danke. ([subtitled] I could smell it before I opened the door. Thank you.)
    German Innkeeper: Speck und schwarzer Kaffe. Wieder. Ich kann Ihnen auch was anderes machen, wenn Sie das möchten. ([subtitled] Side of bacon and black coffee. Again. I can make you something different, if you like.)
    Helmut Zemo: Bitte sehr, das ist wunderbar. ([subtitled] It's okay. This is wonderful.)
    German Innkeeper: Ich stell es dann mal hier hin… ([subtitled] I'll put this on your . . .)
    Helmut Zemo: Nein, nein. Das geht schon. Ich mach das. Vielen Dank, Frau Leiber. ([subtitled] No, no. It's okay. I can manage. Thank you Mrs. Leiber.) [Zemo closes the door. In the room is a large device with a cage at the bottom and a drum of coppered wire on top.]

    [Bucharest. Bucky is in civvies at a fruit store. He buys some plums!]
    Bucky Barnes: [talking to the vendor in Romanian] ([assumed translation] How are they? Are they good? Give me six, thank you.[2])
    [In a black cap and casual jacket Bucky walks along scanning around. Across the street he spots a twenty-something vender at a news-stand watching him. Bucky glances away, then looks back at the vender who's still watching him. The vender runs from his kiosk. Bucky goes over and picks up a paper. On the front page there are surveillance-photos of a man and the head line: 'Winter Soldier cautat pentru Bombardmentul din Viena'. Bucky glances around tensely.]
    [In his dark blue, armored suit with his shield on his arm Steve is in a small apartment. He looks around, there's a mattress with disheveled covers and various bits of cheap looking furniture. The kitchen and bedroom are in the same room. Steve finds a notebook on top of the fridge. He picks it up and opens it. There are tabs of varying colors sticking out from amongst the pages.]
    Sam Wilson: [on radio] Heads up, Cap. German Special Forces, approaching from the south.
    Steve Rogers: Understood. [Bucky's standing behind Steve. Steve slowly turns around to face him.] Do you know me?
    Bucky Barnes: [Bucky stares at him.] You're Steve. I read about you in a museum.
    Sam Wilson: They've set the perimeter.
    Steve Rogers: I know you're nervous. And you have plenty of reason to be. But you're lying.
    Bucky Barnes: I wasn't in Vienna. I don't do that anymore.
    Sam Wilson: They're entering the building.
    Steve Rogers: Well, the people who think you did are coming here now. And they're not planning on taking you alive.
    Bucky Barnes: That's smart. Good strategy.
    Sam Wilson: They're on the roof. I'm compromised.
    [Armed cops run upstairs.]
    Steve Rogers: This doesn't have end in a fight, Buck.
    [Outside the door a cop readies a battering ram.]
    Bucky Barnes: It always ends in a fight.
    Sam Wilson: 5 seconds.
    Steve Rogers: You pulled me from the river. Why?
    Bucky Barnes: I don't know.
    Sam Wilson: 3 seconds!
    Steve Rogers: Yes, you do.
    Sam Wilson: Breach! Breach! Breach! [A grenade crashes through the window. Bucky kicks it to Steve, and he smothers it with his shield.]
    GSG-9 Soldier: Schieß die Tür auf! (Shoot the door!) [The cop slams the battering ram against the door. Bucky shields himself with the mattress against an attack from the window. He blocks the door with a table as cops swing in on cables. Steve pulls the rug from under a policeman, sending him flying. Bucky slams another policeman into the wall.]
    Steve Rogers: Buck, stop! You're gonna kill someone.
    Bucky Barnes: [Bucky slams Steve down and punches a hole in the floor.] I'm not gonna kill anyone.
    [Bucky grabs a backpack from under the floorboards and throws it out of the window. Bucky and Steve get behind Steve's shield to avoid gunfire. Bucky shoves Steve and he knocks a cop over. Bucky holds up his metal hand and repells bullets, then slams a cop into shelves. Bucky picks up a large cement brick and slams it into a cop. Steve fights a cop on the balcony. A cop shoots around the door outside. Bucky punches through the wall beside he door. He lays into the cops. A cop descends through a sky-light on a zip wire. Bucky grabs the cop's gun and slams him into the wall. Bucky bashes a couple of cops with the battering ram. More of the police team hurry up the stairwell. Bucky jumps on the zip-line-guy and swings down a level.]
    GSG-9 Soldier: Der Verdächtige ist ausgebrochen. Er ist am östlichen Treppenschacht. ([subtitled] Suspect has broken containment! He's headed down the east stairwell!)
    [Steve grabs the radio and crushes it. Steve jumps down a level as Bucky keeps punching the cops. Bucky tosses one of them over the railing and Steve catches him, stopping the cop from falling. He looks at Bucky wearily.]
    Steve Rogers: Come on, man.
    [Steve throws the cop up onto the landing. Bucky breaks a banister and swings down on it. Steve hurls a cop over his shoulders. Bucky lays into jet more cops and takes them out. A cop aims at Bucky and Steve knocks the gun from his hands with his shield which sticks in the wall. Bucky leaps down the stairwell and catches onto a railing. Steve pulls his shiel out of the wall. Bucky climbs up then runs along a corridor and leaps off a balcony. He tumbles onto the lower roof of the neighboring building where he finds where his backpack. he picks it up and runs.]
    [A muscular man clad entirely in black, Black Panther, slams into Bucky from behind, knocking him down. He has a full face mask with pointed ears. He extends his fingers and sharp claws pop out. He attacks Bucky with sweeping kicks and slashes. Bucky fights back but is kicked into a wall. Black Panther swipes his claws and spins gracefully. Bucky narrowly avoids being slashed, he holds up a metal bar to protect himself.]
    [Steve looks down at them as Falcon swoops from the sky.]
    Steve Rogers: Sam, southwest rooftop.
    Sam Wilson: Who the hell's the other guy?
    Steve Rogers: About to find out.
    [Steve leaps from the balcony down onto the neighboring building as a chopper flies up. Black Panther lunges at Bucky with his claws, but Bucky grabs his wrists. A soldier fires a machine gun from the chopper. The ammo bounces off Black Panther's armored suit.]
    Steve Rogers: Sam.
    Sam Wilson: Got him. [Sam flies down and shoves the chopper off course. Then swoops towards street level.]
    [Bucky breaks free from his attacker, slings his bag on his back, runs and jumps down a level. Black Panther slides down the wall using his claws for traction. Back lands at street level and the chase continues. Steve follows and lands rolling along the ground. Gunfire from the chopper tears up the sidewalk. Bucky jumps down through an opening and lands in an underpass, he runs through the traffic. Black Panther and Captain America drop down and chase after Bucky. A Special Forces Vehicle pursues them.]
    GSG-9 Driver: Stand down! Stand down! [The vehicle closes in, blue lights flashing. Steve leaps onto the vehicle and splinters the windshield. The driver stops, Steve yanks him from the vehicle and kicks the windshield out, then drives off.]
    [Bucky runs over the top of a speeding car, outpacing it. Black Panther is a few cars behind, keeping pace with Bucky. he leaps on the back of the 4x4 that Steve's driving. Steve swerves from side to side, trying to throw him off.]
    Steve Rogers: Sam, I can't shake this guy.
    Sam Wilson: Right behind you.
    [Several police cars join the chase. Steve side-swipes another car and drives on.]
    [Up ahead Bucky reaches a fork in the road and faces oncoming traffic. He leaps over a barrier. Steve drives through the barrier.]
    [A motorbike speeds towards Bucky. Bucky grabs the handlebar and spins the bike around in mid air, throwing the rider off. Bcuky gets on the bike and rides away sending cars careering out of the way. Steve keeps on Bucky's tail with Black Panther holding onto the back of the 4x4. They all rocket through another underpass. Sam flies into the underpass. Black Panther leaps off the front of the 4x4 onto Bucky's motorbike. Bucky flings him over his head and the bike leans down on its side. Bucky kicks his assailant away, straightens up and rides on. Black Panther catches a ride on Falcon's leg. Sam tries to kick Black Panther away. Bucky throws a sticky bomb and blows up the roof at the end of the underpass, bringing down tons of rubble. Black Panther leaps off from Falcon and throws Bucky off the motorbike. Steve swerves the 4x4 through the rubble, leaps out and pulls Black Panther away from Bucky. Steve stands, facing sleek and muscular Black Panther. Armed police arrive and surround them, guns aimed. War Machine leaps down from above and raises both hands.]
    James Rhodes: Stand down, now. [Bucky stands beside Steve who puts his shield on his back.] Congratulations, Cap. You're a criminal. [Police move in and force Bucky to his knees. Black Panther raises his hands. A cop moves Steve's arms behind his back. Black Panther retracts his claws and pulls off his mask revealing his face. It's T'Challa. Steve and Rhodes look curious.]
    GSG-9 Soldier: Wie lautet der Befehl? (What's the order?)
    James Rhodes: Your highness. [Bucky's hauled flat on the ground.]

    [Avengers HQ. Vision follows a recipe.]
    Vision: 'A pinch of paprika.' A pinch. [He adds a pinch. Wanda strolls in.]
    Wanda Maximoff: Is that paprikash?
    Vision: I thought it might . . . lift your spirits.
    Wanda Maximoff: [She chuckles, stirs the ingredients in the pan with a spoon. She lifts the spoon to her lips, blows and has a taste. She smiles.] Spirits lifted.
    Vision: In my defense, I haven't actually ever . . . eaten anything before, so . . .
    Wanda Maximoff: May I?
    Vision: Please. Wanda?
    Wanda Maximoff: Hmm.
    Vision: No one dislikes you, Wanda. [She frowns curiously.]
    Wanda Maximoff: Thanks.
    Vision: Oh, you're welcome. No, it's a . . . involuntary response in their amygdala. They can't help but be afraid of you.
    Wanda Maximoff: Are you?
    Vision: My amygdala is synthetic, so . . . [Wanda laughs.]
    Wanda Maximoff: I used to think of myself one way. But after this . . . [her fingers glow.] I am something else. I'm still me, I think, but . . . that's not what everyone else sees.
    Vision: [He touches the mind stone in his forehead.] Do you know, I don't know what this is? [It glows.] Not really. I know it's not of this world, that it powered Loki's staff, gave you your abilities, but . . . its true nature is a mystery. And yet, it is part of me.
    Wanda Maximoff: Are you afraid of it?
    Vision: I wish to understand it. The more I do, the less it controls me. One day . . . who knows? I may even control it.
    Wanda Maximoff: [Wanda looks at the food.] I don't know what's in this but it is not paprika. I'm gonna go to the store. I'll be back in 20 minutes.
    Vision: Alternatively, we could order a pizza?
    Wanda Maximoff: Vision, are you not letting me leave?
    Vision: [He blocks her way.] It is a question of safety.
    Wanda Maximoff: I can protect myself.
    Vision: [He holds her arm.] Not yours. Mr. Stark would like to avoid the possibility of another public incident. Until the Accords are on a . . . more secured foundation.
    Wanda Maximoff: And what do you want?
    Vision: For people to see you . . . as I do. [She looks at him gravely.]

    [Berlin, day. Traffic rolls around the victory column. Police convoy drives beside the river Spree. Amidst the convoy is a gray armed truck. Inside Bucky wears restraints inside a prison pod. Three armed guards sit on the other side of the glass-walled pod. A police motorbike stops traffic and a van driver looks affronted. The convoy turns a corner onto a bridge across the river. In an SUV T'Challa sits in front of Steve who sits in front of Sam.]
    Sam Wilson: So, you like cats?
    Steve Rogers: Sam.
    Sam Wilson: What? Dude shows up dressed like a cat and you don't wanna know more?
    Steve Rogers: Your suit . . . t's Vibranium?
    T'Challa: [T'Challes eyes narrow as he glances sideways.] The Black Panther has been the protector of Wakanda for generations. A mantle, passed from warrior to warrior. And now, because your friend murdered my father, I also wear the mantle of king. So, I ask you . . . as both warrior and king . . . how long do you think you can keep your friend safe from me? [Steve is stony faced as the convoy heads underground.]

    [In a light gray walled bunker Bucky's pod is carried away by a forklift. Nearby Steve gets out of the SUV and glances across at Bucky who doesn't spot him. With Sam and T'Challa Steve approaches Sharon who's standing with a diminutive, gray-head man.]
    Steve Rogers: What's gonna happen to him?
    Everett Ross: Same thing that ought to happen to you. Psychological evaluation and extradition.
    Sharon Carter: This is Everett Ross, Deputy Task Force Commander.
    Steve Rogers: What about our lawyer?
    Everett Ross: Lawyer. That's funny. See their weapons are placed in lockup. Oh, we'll write you a receipt.
    Sam Wilson: I better not look out the window and see anybody flying around in that. [As they go Steve looks back and catches Bucky's eye.]
    [On a covered sky walk.]
    Everett Ross: You'll be provided with an office instead of a cell. Now, do me a favor, stay in it?
    T'Challa: I don't intend on going anywhere.
    Natasha Romanoff: For the record, this is what making things worse looks like.
    Steve Rogers: He's alive.
    Tony Stark: [on his phone] No. Romania was not Accords-sanctioned. And, Colonel Rhodes is supervising cleanup.
    Natasha Romanoff: Try not to break anything while we fix this.
    Tony Stark: [still on the phone.] Consequences? You bet there'll be consequences. Obviously you can quote me on that 'cause I just said it. Anything else? Thank you, sir.
    Steve Rogers: 'Consequences'?
    Tony Stark: Secretary Ross wants you both prosecuted. Had to give him something.
    Steve Rogers: I'm not getting that shield back, am I?
    Natasha Romanoff: Technically, it's the government's property. Wings, too.
    Sam Wilson: That's cold.
    Tony Stark: Warmer than jail.
    [At a power station surrounded by trees the van with the driver who was affronted by the police convoy pulls up by the open gate. Scowling he puts the parking break on and picks up a clip board.]
    Delivery Truck Driver: Das kann nicht richtig sein. Was zum Teufel? (This can't be right. What the hell?)
    [In a secured chamber a guard connects a pipe to Bucky's prison pod. The lights inside dim for a moment.]
    [Tony finds Steve in a glass-walled office overlooking the control room.]
    Tony Stark: Hey, you wanna see something cool? I pulled something from Dad's archives. Felt timely. [Tony shows him two pens in a black presentation box.] FDR signed the Lend-Lease bill with these in 1941. Provided support to the Allies when they needed it most.
    Steve Rogers: Some would say it brought our country closer to war.
    Tony Stark: See? If not for these, you wouldn't be here. I'm trying to . . . what do you call it? That's an olive branch. Is that what you call it?
    Steve Rogers: Is Pepper here? I didn't see her.
    Tony Stark: We're kinda . . . well, not kinda . . .
    Steve Rogers: Pregnant?
    Tony Stark: No. Definitely not. We're taking a break. It's nobody's fault.
    Steve Rogers: I'm so sorry, Tony. I didn't know.
    Tony Stark: A few years ago, I almost lost her, so I trashed all my suits. Then, we had to mop up HYDRA . . . and then Ultron. My fault. And then, and then, and then, I never stopped. Because the truth is I don't wanna stop. I don't wanna lose her. I thought maybe the Accords could split the difference. [Tony stands up and paces.] In her defense, I'm a handful. Yet, Dad was a pain in the ass, but he and Mom always made it work.
    Steve Rogers: You know, I'm glad Howard got married. I only knew him when he was young and single.
    Tony Stark: Oh, really? You two knew each other? He never mentioned that. Maybe only a thousand times. God, I hated you.
    Steve Rogers: I don't mean to make things difficult.
    Tony Stark: I know, because you're a very polite person.
    Steve Rogers: If I see a situation pointed south . . . I can't ignore it. Sometimes I wish I could.
    Tony Stark: No, you don't.
    Steve Rogers: [Steve smiles thinly.] No, I don't. Sometimes . . .
    Tony Stark: Sometimes I wanna punch you in your perfect teeth. But I don't wanna see you gone. We need you, Cap. So far, nothing's happened that can't be undone, if you sign. We can make the last 24 hours legit. Barnes gets transferred to an American psych-center . . . instead of a Wakandan prison.
    Steve Rogers: [Steve frowns thoughtfully and picks up one of the fountain pens. He stands up and paces, then turns to Tony. In the control room beyond there are multiple screens on the walls.] I'm not saying it's impossible, but there would have to be safeguards.
    Tony Stark: Sure. Once we put out the PR fire, those documents can be amended. I'd file a motion to have you and Wanda reinstated . . .
    Steve Rogers: Wanda? What about Wanda?
    Tony Stark: She's fine. She's confined to the compound, currently. Vision's keeping her company.
    Steve Rogers: Oh God, Tony! Every time. Every time I think you see things the right way . . .
    Tony Stark: What? It's a 100 acres with a lap pool. It's got a screening room. There's worse ways to protect people.
    Steve Rogers: Protection? Is that how you see this? This is protection? It's internment, Tony.
    Tony Stark: She's not a US citizen.
    Steve Rogers: Oh, come on, Tony.
    Tony Stark: And they don't grant visas to weapons of mass destruction.
    Steve Rogers: She's a kid!
    Tony Stark: GIVE ME A BREAK! I'm doing what has to be done . . . to stave off something worse.
    Steve Rogers: [Steve nods faintly.] You keep telling yourself that. [He puts down the pen.] Hate to break up the set. [He leaves the office and rueful Tony watches Bucky on one of the control room's screens.]

    Helmut Zemo: [The evaluator sits at a desk facing Bucky's pod. Inside Bucky's still restrained.] Hello, Mr. Barnes. I've been sent by the United Nations to evaluate you. Do you mind if I sit? Your first name is James?
    Sharon Carter: [In an office with Sam and Steve.] The receipt for your gear.
    Sam Wilson: 'Bird costume'? Come on.
    Sharon Carter: I didn't write it. [Sharon pushes a button witch stops the restriction on the audio from Bucky's evaluation.]
    Helmut Zemo: I'm not here to judge you. I just want to ask you a few questions. Do you know where you are, James? I can't help you if you don't talk to me, James.
    Bucky Barnes: My name is Bucky.
    [At the power station. The van driver honks and looks impatient watching the custodian's hut's front door.]
    Delivery Truck Driver: Hallo? ([subtitled] Hello?) [The custodian comes outside and the driver comes out of his van.] Hey. Ich hab eine große für dich. ([subtitled] Hey. I have a big one for you.) [He opens the van's back doors and removes a large wooden crate.] Ja. Okay, hier unterzeichnen. (Okay. Here. Just sign here.)
    Custodian: Hier? (Here?)
    Delivery Truck Driver: Ja. (Yeah.) [The custodian signs for the crate.]
    [At the UN-bunker Steve studies the blurry photograph of the man who bombed the congress in Vienna.]
    Steve Rogers: Why would the Task Force release this photo to begin with?
    Sharon Carter: Get the word out, involve as many eyes as we can?
    Steve Rogers: Right. It's a good way to flush a guy out of hiding. Set off a bomb, get your picture taken. Get seven billion people looking for the Winter Soldier.
    Sharon Carter: You're saying someone framed him to find him.
    Sam Wilson: Steve, we looked for the guy for two years and found nothing.
    Steve Rogers: We didn't bomb the UN. That turns a lot of heads.
    Sharon Carter: Yeah, but that doesn't guarantee that whoever framed him would get him. It guarantees that we would. [Sharon's gaze falls on the evaluator in the screen, her eyes narrow.]
    Steve Rogers: [Steve frowns and looks around.] Yeah.
    Helmut Zemo: [In the secure chamber.] Tell me, Bucky. You've seen a great deal, haven't you?
    Bucky Barnes: I don't want to talk about it.
    Helmut Zemo: You fear that… if you open your mouth, the horrors might never stop. Don't worry. [Zemo gets a message on his screen: 'message inbox:1' touches it 'status: package delivered'.] We only have to talk about one.
    [At the power station the custodian opens the crate. Finding Zemo's large device inside, he looks confused. The driver is at the back door of his van.]
    Custodian: Hey, was ist das? (Hey. What is this?)
    Delivery Truck Driver: Ich weiß es nicht. (I don't know.)
    [The device erupts. A bubble of energy engulfs the power station and sparks fly. In the city traffic lights fail. In the bunker the lights go out.]
    Everett Ross: Great. Come on, guys, get me eyes on Barnes. Go.
    Tony Stark: FRIDAY, get me the source of that outage.
    Sharon Carter: [In the office.] Sub-level 5, east wing. [T'Challa spots Steve and Sam bolting.]
    [In Bucky's pod.]
    Bucky Barnes: What the hell is this?
    Helmut Zemo: Why don't we discuss your home? Not Romania. Certainly not Brooklyn, no. I mean, your real home. [Zemo removes his glasses then walks towards Bucky reading from the red book by torchlight.] Желание. ([subtitled] Longing.)
    Bucky Barnes: [Bucky shuts his eyes.] No. [Bucky's head snaps back.]
    Helmut Zemo: Ржавый. ([subtitled] Rusted.)
    Bucky Barnes: Stop.
    Helmut Zemo: Семнадцать. ([subtitled] Seventeen.)
    Bucky Barnes: [Bucky's metal arm trembles in its restraint.] Stop. [He sneers angrily.]
    Helmut Zemo: Рассвет. ([subtitled] Daybreak.)
    [Bucky screams, clenches his fist and rips free of his restraints.]
    Helmut Zemo: Печь. ([subtitled] Furnace.) Девять. ([subtitled] Nine.)
    [Bucky thumps the inside of the pod.]
    Helmut Zemo: Добросердечный. ([subtitled] Benign.)
    [Bucky punches harder.]
    Helmut Zemo: Возвращение на Родину. ([subtitled] Homecoming.) Один. ([subtitled:] One.) Грузовой вагон. ([subtitled] Freight car.)
    [Bucky batteres the front of the pod with his metal fist and the glass screen flies clear. Zemo slowly rounds the pod with the book and the torch in hand. he stands before Bucky who straightens, a dark frown on his face.]
    Helmut Zemo: Солдат? ([subtitled] Soldier?)
    Bucky Barnes: Я готов отвечать. ([subtitled] Ready to comply.)
    Helmut Zemo: Mission report. December 16, 1991.

    [Steve and Sam arrive outside the chamber. Red emergency lights flash all around. There are many agents slumped on the floor. All of them out cold.]
    Helmut Zemo: Help me. Help.
    Steve Rogers: [Steve finds Zemo in a heap inside the chamber.] Get up. [he grabs Zemo and shoves him against the wall.] Who are you? What do you want?
    Helmut Zemo: To see an empire fall.
    [As Sam enters Bucky swings his fist which smashes through the wall as Sam ducks. Bucky grabs him by the jaw and throws him at the open pod. Steve lurches into the fight and lands a punch which Bucky barely feels. Bucky kicks and punches Steve out of the chamber. A punch from Bucky goes through the elevator door. Steve blocks the next one but the power of Bucky's fist sends Steve tumbling into the darkened elevator shaft.]
    [In the chamber Sam comes around and spots Zemo looking down the elevator shaft.]
    Man on PA #1: Der Ostflügel ist kompromittiert. Ich wiederhole: Der Ostflügel ist kompromittiert. (The east wing is compromised. I repeat: the east wing is compromised.)
    Sam Wilson: Hey.
    [Zemo bolts, Sam rises. At the bottom of the shaft Steve pushes himself off the floor.]

    [In the control room.]
    Everett Ross: Evac all civilians. Get me a perimeter around the building, and gunships in the air.
    Natasha Romanoff: Please tell me you brought a suit.
    Tony Stark: Sure did. It's a lovely Tom Ford, three-piece, two-button. I'm an active-duty non-combatant.
    Sharon Carter: Follow me. [Sharon runs past Tony and Natasha.]
    [Sam chases Zemo up a stair well.]
    [Steve starts to climb the elevator shaft.]
    [Bucky stalks through the building's ground floor. He batters two guards. With tech-glasses on Tony takes cover behind a pillar.]
    Natasha Romanoff: [on radio:] We're in position.
    [Tony taps a wrist-control which becomes his Iron Man-glove. He zaps Bucky with a stun-burst before Bucky can shoot a guard. Tony rushes him, firing again. Bucky ducks the blast then trades blows with Tony, firing the gun. Tony has the Iron Man-glove over the barrel, blocking the bullet. He pulls the gun barrel loose then Bucky smacks him backwards. Sharon rushes Bucky, then Natasha rushes Bucky. They both land kicks and punches, then Bucky flips Sharon head over heels. She smashes onto a table then Natasha leaps on Bucky, legs around his neck. He slams her onto another table and grabs her throat.]
    Natasha Romanoff: You could at least recognize me.
    [T'Challa comes from nowhere and kicks Bucky off Natasha. He fights with Bucky, landing lightning fast kicks and some punches. Bucky gets a counter punch in and T'Challa falls, but quickly recovers. Bucky hurries up some stairs. T'Challa leaps the levels and vaults a railing, landing in front of Bucky. Limber T'Challa spin-kicks and grabs Bucky's metal arm which he tries to twist then looks worried as he realizes it isn't going to work. He throws Bucky backwards and keeps hold as they both tumble down the stairs. They resume fighting on the small landing and a leg sweep sends Bucky over the railing. T'Challa leaps down after him but finds the wide reception empty. He scans around.]

    [Outside staff flee the building en masse. Sam is among them and quickly spots something on the ground. He picks it up.]
    Sam Wilson: Damn it. [he looks around the wide courtyard and scowls.]
    [Bucky's on the rooftop helipad. He marches up to a blue chopper and pulls the lock off the door. he gets in the pilot seat. Steve rushes outside and sprints toward the rising chopper. He leaps and grabs the landing gear. Muscles bulging Steve pulls hard and the chopper struggles to gain height. Steve's feet kick for traction then he gets them flat on the helipad. The chopper drags him onto the weak looking mesh framing the helipad. Steve grabs the railing with one hand and clings to the landing gear with the other. He grits his teeth and his neck strains with the incredible effort. Bucky glowers from inside the chopper then throws the joystick left and the chopper's nose slams into the edge of the helipad. The rotor-blades are smashed to pieces and Steve ducks as the tail swings around. The chopper lies twisted on the mesh at the edge of the pad. Steve rises beside the canopy. Bucky's arm smashes through the glass and growling he grabs Steve's throat. The chopper starts to list over the edge. The tail breaks off and falls into the river below. Bucky keeps hold of Steve as the whole vehicle drops and slams into the river. The impact seems to knock Bucky out cold and he lets go of Steve. The body of the chopper sinks quickly to the riverbed along with other debris. Steve surfaces with Bucky in his arms.]

    [At an airport Zemo listens to a phone message.:]
    Zemo's Wife: He asked me again if you were going to be there. I said I wasn't sure. You should've seen his little face. Just try, okay? I'm going to bed. I love you.
    [Frowning Zemo ends the call. A TV news report is playing nearby:]
    News anchor #5: James Barnes, der mit dem Bombenanschlag auf die UN in Wien in Verbindung gebracht wird, ist heute aus der Haft entflohen. Ebenfalls vermisst werden die Avengers Captain Steve Rogers und Sam Wilson. ([subtitled:] James Barnes, the suspect in the UN Vienna bombing escaped custody today. Also missing Avenger Captain Steve Rogers and Sam Wilson.)
    [Zemo eyes the TV screen. He stands in line at a departures gate. The screen above the gate reads: 'Gate 06 | Berlin Flughafen | AEM2103 | 14:10 | Moskau/Moscow']

    [In a huge abandoned warehouse Bucky comes to with his metallic left arm clamped in a huge industrial vice. Steve peers through a gap at a chopper flying overhead. Sam's over by Bucky.]
    Sam Wilson: Hey, Cap! [Steve goes over to join Sam by Bucky who sits with his arm in the vice. They stare at him.]
    Bucky Barnes: Steve.
    Steve Rogers: Which Bucky am I talking to?
    Bucky Barnes: Your mom's name was Sarah...You used to wear newspapers in your shoes.
    Steve Rogers: Can't read that in a museum.
    Sam Wilson: Just like that, we're suppose to be cool?
    Bucky Barnes: What did I do?
    Steve Rogers: Enough.
    Bucky Barnes: Oh, God, I knew this would happen. Everything HYDRA put inside me is still there. All he had to do was say the goddamn words.
    Steve Rogers: Who was he?
    Bucky Barnes: I don't know.
    Steve Rogers: People are dead. The bombing, the setup. The doctor did all that just to get 10 minutes with you. I need you to do better than "I don't know."
    Bucky Barnes: He wanted to know about Siberia. Where I was kept. He wanted to know exactly where.
    Steve Rogers: Why would he need to know that?
    Bucky Barnes: Because I'm not the only Winter Soldier.

    [1991, at night Bucky rides alongside the car and somehow causes the car to crash. He circles back, pulls up and climbs off the motorbike. he's filmed on CCTV as he approaches the car's trunk. He janks it open, breaking the lock. Inside he opens a metal case which contains five clear drip bags filled with bright blue fluid.]
    [Four young men and a young woman sit up in hospital beds. The blue fluid is fed intravenously into their arms. The drip bags hang on stands beside them. They're all fit and muscular. One man, Josef, flexes a huge biceps. Josef is screaming, dragged into a cell and left on a bed.]
    Josef / Super Soldier #1: It hurts! [He struggles in leather bindings. A viewing slot is closed.]
    [Karpov is sitting at a desk in a corridor, making notes and listening. Karpov opens the door to a lab and switches on the light. Josef is sitting on a bed. He looks up at Karpov.]
    [Bucky and Josef fight each other in a barred chamber. The four others who were given the blue liquid are there. Josef kicks with enormous power, sending Bucky flying. Watching Karpov folds his arms.
    Vasily Karpov: Очень хорошо, Иосиф. ([subtitled] Good work.)
    [A medic takes Josef's pulse and Josef slams him onto the floor. A soldier clubs Josef onto the back with no effect. Karpov gets behind Bucky and aims a gun.]
    Vasily Karpov: Солдат, вытащи меня отсюда! ([subtitled] Get me out of here.)
    [Josef and the other four Winter Soldiers effortlessly dispatch a squad of Soldiers. Bucky escorts covering Karpov from the barred chamber, batting guards aside.]

    Steve Rogers: Who were they?
    Bucky Barnes: Their most elite death squad. More kills than anyone in HYDRA history. And that was before the serum.
    Sam Wilson: They all turn out like you?
    Bucky Barnes: Worse.
    Steve Rogers: The doctor, could he control them?
    Bucky Barnes: Enough.
    Steve Rogers: Said he wanted to see an empire fall.
    Bucky Barnes: With these guys he could do it. They speak 30 languages, can hide in plain sight, infiltrate, assassinate, destabilize, They can take a whole country down in one night. You'd never see them coming.
    Sam Wilson: [Sam steps up to Steve.] This would have been a lot easier a week ago.
    Steve Rogers: If we call Tony . . .
    Sam Wilson: No, he won't believe us.
    Steve Rogers: Even if he did . . .
    Sam Wilson: Who knows if the Accords would let him help.
    Steve Rogers: We're on our own.
    Sam Wilson: Maybe not. I know a guy.

    Secretary Ross: I don't suppose you have any idea where they are?
    Tony Stark: We will. GSG-9's got the borders covered. Recon's flying 24/7. They'll get a hit. We'll handle it.
    Secretary Ross: You don't get it, Stark. It's not yours to handle. It's clear you can't be objective. I'm putting Special Ops on this.
    Natasha Romanoff: What happens when the shooting starts? What, do you kill Steve Rogers?
    Secretary Ross: If we're provoked. Barnes would've been eliminated in Romania if it wasn't for Rogers. There are dead people who would be alive now. Feel free to check my math.
    Tony Stark: All due respect, you're not going to solve this with boys in bullets, Ross. You gotta let us bring them in.
    Secretary Ross: How would that end any differently from the last time?
    Tony Stark: Because this time, I won't be wearing loafers and a silk shirt. 72 hours, guaranteed.
    Secretary Ross: 36 hours. Barnes. Rogers. Wilson.
    Tony Stark: Thank you, sir. [Tony slumps, exhaling.] My left arm is numb, is that normal?
    Natasha Romanoff: [She pats him on the shoulder.] You alright?
    Tony Stark: Always. [He has a massive black eye and a cut on his brow.] 36 hours, jeez.
    Natasha Romanoff: We're seriously understaffed.
    Tony Stark: Oh, yeah. It'd be great if we had a Hulk right about now. Any shot?
    Natasha Romanoff: No. You really think he'd be on our side?
    Tony Stark: No.
    Natasha Romanoff: I have an idea.
    Tony Stark: Me too. Where's yours?
    Natasha Romanoff: Downstairs. Where's yours? [Tony smiles slightly.]

    [Queens, New York. Peter Parker walks out of an elevator holding a DVD-player and with a backpack on his shoulder. He walks into an apartment where his Aunt May is sitting on the couch with Tony Stark.]
    Peter Parker: Hey, May.
    May Parker: Mmm. Hey. How was school today?
    Peter Parker: Okay. This crazy car parked outside . . . [Peter sees Tony and his eyes widen.]
    Tony Stark: Oh, Mr. Parker.
    Peter Parker: Um . . . [He takes out his earphones.] What--what are you doing . . .? Hey! Uh, I'm--Im--I'm Peter.
    Tony Stark: Tony.
    Peter Parker: What are . . .what are you--what are you--what are you doing here?
    Tony Stark: It's about time we met. You've been getting my e-mails, right?
    Peter Parker: Yeah. Yeah.
    Tony Stark: Right?
    Peter Parker: Regarding the . . .
    May Parker: You didn't tell me about the grant.
    Peter Parker: About the grant.
    Tony Stark: The September Foundation.
    Peter Parker: Right.
    Tony Stark: Yeah. Remember when you applied?
    Peter Parker: Yeah.
    Tony Stark: I approved, so now we're in business.
    May Parker: You didn't tell me anything. What's up with that? You keeping secrets from me now?
    Peter Parker: Why, I just, I just . . . I just know how much you love surprises, so I thought I would let you know . . . wh . . . anyway, what did I apply for?
    Tony Stark: That's what I'm here to hash out.
    Peter Parker: Okay. Hash, hash out, okay.
    Tony Stark: It's so hard for me to believe that she's someone's aunt.
    May Parker: Yeah, well, we come in all shapes and sizes, you know?
    Tony Stark: This walnut date loaf is exceptional.
    Peter Parker: Let me just stop you there.
    Tony Stark: Yeah?
    Peter Parker: Is this grant, like, got money involved or whatever? No?
    Tony Stark: Yeah.
    Peter Parker: Yeah?
    Tony Stark: It's pretty well funded.
    Peter Parker: Wow.
    Tony Stark: Look who you're talking to. Can I have 5 minutes with him?
    May Parker: Sure.
    Tony Stark: [In Peter's bedroom Tony bolts the door and spits out the walnut loaf.] As walnut date loaves go, that wasn't bad. [He notices Peter's collection of old computers.] Whoa, what do we have here? Retro tech, huh? Thrift store? Salvation Army?
    Peter Parker: Uh, the garbage, actually.
    Tony Stark: You're a dumpster diver.
    Peter Parker: Yeah, I was . . . anyway, look, um, I definitely did not apply for your grant.
    Tony Stark: Ah-ah! Me first.
    Peter Parker: Okay.
    Tony Stark: Quick question of the rhetorical variety. [He pulls out his phone which projects a video of Peter Parker in his Spider-Man outfit.] That's you, right?
    Peter Parker: Um, no. What do you. What do you mean?
    Tony Stark: Yeah. Look at you go. Wow! Nice catch. 3,000 pounds, 40 miles an hour. That's not easy. You got mad skills.
    Peter Parker: That's all- That's all on YouTube, though, right? I mean, that's where you found that? Because you know that's all fake. It's all done on the computer.
    Tony Stark: Mm-Hmm.
    Peter Parker: It's like that video. What is it?
    Tony Stark: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah . . . oh, you mean like those UFOs over Phoenix?
    Peter Parker: Exactly.
    Tony Stark: Oh, what have we here?
    Peter Parker: [Peter hides his Spider-Man suit.] Uh . . . that's a . . .
    Tony Stark: So. You're the . . . Spider . . . ling. Crime-fighting Spider . . .you're Spider-Boy?
    Peter Parker: [Peter folds his arms petulantly.] S . . . Spider-Man.
    Tony Stark: Not in that onesie, you're not.
    Peter Parker: It's not a onesie. [Tony picks up the suit.] I don't believe this. I was actually having a real good day today, you know, Mr. Stark. Didn't miss my train, this perfectly good DVD player was just sitting there and . . . Algebra test. Nailed it!
    Tony Stark: Who else knows? Anybody?
    Peter Parker: Nobody.
    Tony Stark: Not even your . . . unusually attractive aunt?
    Peter Parker: No. No, no. No, no. If she knew, she would freak out. And when she freaks out, I freak out.
    Tony Stark: You know what I think is really cool? This webbing. That tensile strength is off the charts. Who manufactured that?
    Peter Parker: I did.
    Tony Stark: Climbing the walls, how you doing that? Adhesive gloves?
    Peter Parker: It's a long story. I was uh . . .
    Tony Stark: Lordy! Can you even see in these?
    Peter Parker: Yes. Yes, I can! I can. I can-I can see in those. Okay? It's just that… when whatever happened, happened . . . it's like my senses have been dialed to 11. There's way too much input, so . . . they just kinda help me focus.
    Tony Stark: You're in dire need of an upgrade. Systemic, top to bottom. 100-point restoration. That's why I'm here. [Peter sits on his bed and looks at Tony.] Why you doing this? I gotta know. What's your MO? What gets you outta that twin bed in the morning?
    Peter Parker: Because . . . [he fiddles with his fingers] because l've been me my whole life, and l've had these powers for 6 months.
    Tony Stark: Mm-Hmm.
    Peter Parker: I read books, I build computers . . . and--and yeah. I would love to play football. But I couldn't then so I shouldn't now.
    Tony Stark: Sure, because you're different.
    Peter Parker: Exactly. But I can't tell anybody that, so I'm not. When you can do the things that I can, but you don't . . . [Tony leans closer.] and then the bad things happen . . . they happen because of you.
    Tony Stark: [he looks affected by Peter's words.] So you wanna look out for the little guy? You wanna do your part? Make the world a better place, all that, right?
    Peter Parker: Yeah. Yeah just looking out . . . for the little guy. That's--that's what it is.
    Tony Stark: [He slowly steps over to Peter whose leg is stretched out on the bed. Tony looks down at it.] I'm gonna sit here, so you move the leg. [Peter moves along. Tony sits beside him and raises his hand. He hesitantly clasps Peter's shoulder.] You got a passport?
    Peter Parker: Uh, no. I don't even have a driver's license.
    Tony Stark: You ever been to Germany?
    Peter Parker: No.
    Tony Stark: Oh, you'll love it.
    Peter Parker: I can't go to Germany!
    Tony Stark: Why?
    Peter Parker: I got . . . homework.
    Tony Stark: I'm gonna pretend you didn't say that.
    Peter Parker: I'm---I'm being serious! I can't just drop out of school!
    Tony Stark: Might be a little dangerous. Better tell Aunt Hottie I'm taking you on a field trip.
    Peter Parker: [He webs Tony's hand to the door.] Don't tell Aunt May.
    Tony Stark: Alright, Spider-Man. [They share an earnest look before Tony returns to his usual attitude.] Get me out of this.
    Peter Parker: Sorry, I'll get the . . .

    [Night, at Avengers' HQ. Vision floats above the floor. An explosion in the distance lights up the room for a moment. Vision and Wanda look out of the window.]
    Wanda Maximoff: What is it?
    Vision: Stay here, please.
    [Vision goes. Suddenly Wanda compels a knife across the room. It stops dead in front of Clint's head.]
    Clint Barton: Guess I shoulda knocked.
    Wanda Maximoff: Oh my god! What are you doing here?
    Clint Barton: Disappointing my kids. [He shoots arrows to both sides of the room.] I'm supposed to go water-skiing. Cap needs our help. Come on.
    Vision: Clint! [Wanda and Clint stop.] You should not be here.
    Clint Barton: [He turns around.] Really? I retire for, what, like five minutes, and it all goes to shit.
    Vision: Please consider the consequences of your actions.
    Clint Barton: Okay, they're considered. Okay, we gotta go. [Vision is held in a force field, crackling and sparkling between the two arrows.] It's this way.
    Wanda Maximoff: I've caused enough problems.
    Clint Barton: [Frowning Clint runs back from the door.] You gotta help me, Wanda. Look, you wanna mope, can go to high school. You wanna make amends, you get off your ass. Shit. [Vision breaks the force field with his mind stone. He punches Clint to the floor, Clint recovers quickly.] I knew I should've stretched. [He extends a baton and tries to hit Vision, but the blows go through him. Clint resorts to punches, then tries the baton again. It breaks. Clint tries to kick Vision, but his leg goes right through him. Vision gets Clint in a headlock.]
    Vision: Clint, you can't overpower me.
    Clint Barton: I know I can't. But she can.
    Wanda Maximoff: Vision, that's enough. Let him go. I'm leaving.
    Vision: I can't let you.
    Wanda Maximoff: [She holds her hands apart, glowing with energy. Clint slips from Vision's grasp.] I'm sorry.
    Vision: [He falters.] If you do this . . . they will never stop being afraid of you.
    Wanda Maximoff: I can't control their fear, only my own. [She moves closer. Vision glows from within and crashes through the floor, and several floors beneath. Wanda and Clint stand over the holes in the floors.]
    Clint Barton: Oh . . . come on. We got one more stop.

    [Back at the Joint Counter Terrorist Centre:]
    Attache: It's just a matter of time. Our satellites are running facial, bio-metric, and behavioral pattern scans.
    Security Chief: [to Natasha who's standing in their way] Move, or you will be moved.
    T'Challa: As entertaining as that would be . . .
    Natasha Romanoff: You really think you can find him?
    T'Challa: My resources are considerable.
    Natasha Romanoff: Yeah, it took the world 70 years to find Barnes . . . so you could probably do that in about half the time.
    T'Challa: You know where they are.
    Natasha Romanoff: I know someone who does.

    [Under an overpass:]
    Sharon Carter: Not sure you understand the concept of a getaway car.
    Steve Rogers: It's low profile.
    Sharon Carter: Good, because this stuff tends to draw a crowd. [She opens the trunk of her car, revealing Steve's and Sams's gear.]
    Bucky Barnes: [He sits behind Sam in the getaway car.] Can you move your seat up?
    Sam Wilson: No.
    Steve Rogers: I owe you again.
    Sharon Carter: Keeping a list. [She glances at Bucky.] You know, he kinda tried to kill me.
    Steve Rogers: Sorry. I'll put it on the list, too. They're going to come looking for you.
    Sharon Carter: I know.
    [They kiss.]
    Steve Rogers: Thank you, Sharon.
    Sharon Carter: That was . . .
    Steve Rogers: Late.
    Sharon Carter: Damn right. I should go.
    Steve Rogers: Okay.

    [On the 6th level of a parking garage at the Leipzig/Halle airport. Steve drives into the parking lot in the battered, old car. He parks by a grey van and gets out.]
    Clint Barton: Cap.
    Steve Rogers: You know I wouldn't have called If I had any other choice.
    Clint Barton: Hey man, you're doing me a favor. Besides, I owe a debt.
    Steve Rogers: Thanks for having my back.
    Wanda Maximoff: It was time to get off my ass.
    Steve Rogers: How about our other recruit?
    Clint Barton: He's rarin' to go. Had to put a little coffee in him, but… he should be good.
    Scott Lang: What timezone is this?
    Clint Barton: Come on. Come on.
    Scott Lang: [Scott shakes Steve's hand with an amazed look.] Captain America.
    Steve Rogers: Mr. Lang.
    Scott Lang: It's an honor. I'm shaking your hand too long. Wow! This is awesome! Captain America. [He looks at Wanda.] I know you, too. You're great! [He turns back and feels Steve's shoulders.] Jeez. Ah, look, I wanna say, I know you know a lot of super people, so . . . thinks for thanking of me. [(sic!) To Sam.] Hey, man!
    Sam Wilson: What's up, Tic Tac?
    Scott Lang: Uh, good to see you. Look, what happened last time when I . . .
    Sam Wilson: It was a great audition, but it'll . . . it'll never happen again.
    Steve Rogers: They tell you what we're up against?
    Scott Lang: Something about some . . . psycho-assassins?
    Steve Rogers: We're outside the law on this one. So, if you come with us, you're a wanted man.
    Scott Lang: Yeah, well, what else is new?
    Bucky Barnes: We should get moving.
    Clint Barton: We got a chopper lined up.
    Man on PA #2: Dies ist eine Notsituation. Alle Passagiere müssen den Flughafen sofort evakuieren. (This is an emergency. All passengers must evacuate the airport immediately.)
    Bucky Barnes: They're evacuating the airport.
    Sam Wilson: Stark.
    Scott Lang: Stark?
    Steve Rogers: Suit up.

    [Steve in his uniform strides through an underpass, then jogs onto a private runway, heading for a grounded chopper. An electro-disabler slams onto the chopper and Steve looks up. Iron Man and War Machine decent.]
    Tony Stark: Wow, it's so weird how you run into people at the airport. Don't you think that's weird?
    James Rhodes: Definitely weird.
    Steve Rogers: Hear me out, Tony. That doctor, the psychiatrist, he's behind all of this.
    T'Challa: [T'Challa leaps over a truck.] Captain.
    Steve Rogers: Your highness.
    Tony Stark: Anyway, Ross gave me 36 hours to bring you in. That was 24 hours ago. Can you help a brother out?
    Steve Rogers: You're after the wrong guy.
    Tony Stark: Your judgment is askew. Your old war buddy killed innocent people yesterday.
    Steve Rogers: And there are five more super soldiers just like him. I can't let the doctor find them first, Tony. I can't.
    Natasha Romanoff: Steve . . . you know what's about to happen. Do you really wanna punch your way out of this one?
    Tony Stark: All right, I've run out of patience. Underoos! [Peter shoots a web, stealing Steve's shield and binding his hands.] Nice job, kid.
    Peter Parker: Thanks. Well, I could've stuck the landing a little better. It's just the new suit… Well, it's nothing, Mr. Stark. It's--it's perfect. Thank you.
    Tony Stark: Yeah, we don't really need to start a conversation.
    Peter Parker: Okay. Cap . . . Captain. Big fan, I'm Spider-Man.
    Tony Stark: Yeah, we'll talk about it later. Just . . .
    Peter Parker: Hey, everyone.
    Tony Stark: . . . Good job.
    Steve Rogers: You've been busy.
    Tony Stark: And you've been a complete idiot. Dragging in Clint. 'Rescuing' Wanda from a place she doesn't even want to leave, a safe place. I'm trying to keep . . . I'm trying to keep you from tearing the Avengers apart.
    Steve Rogers: You did that when you signed.
    Tony Stark: Alright, We're done. You're gonna turn Barnes over, you're gonna come with us. NOW! Because it's us! Or a squad of J-SOC guys . . . with no compunction about being impolite. [Steve looks aside.] Come on.
    Sam Wilson: [He radios Steve.] We found it. Their Quinjet's in hanger five, north runway.
    Steve Rogers: [Steve holds his hands up and Clint shoots the web off.] Alright, Lang.
    Peter Parker: Hey, guys, something . . .
    James Rhodes: Whoa. What--what the hell was that?
    Scott Lang: [He retrieves Steve's shield.] I believe this is yours, Captain America.
    Tony Stark: Oh, great. Alright, there's two on the parking deck. One of them's Maximoff, I'm gonna grab her. Rhodey, you want to take Cap?
    James Rhodes: Got two in the terminal, Wilson and Barnes.
    T'Challa: Barnes is mine!
    Peter Parker: Hey, Mr. Stark, what should I do?
    Tony Stark: What we discussed. Keep your distance. Web 'em up.
    Peter Parker: Okay, copy that!
    T'Challa: Move, Captain. I won't ask a second time.
    Scott Lang: [He faces Natasha.] Look, I really don't want to hurt you.
    Natasha Romanoff: I wouldn't stress about it. [She kicks him in the groin and he miniaturizes, throwing her head over heels. She zaps him off her wrist and he slams into a nearby truck, laving a small dent.]
    Bucky Barnes: [In the terminal.] What the hell is that?
    Sam Wilson: Everyone's got a gimmick now.
    Peter Parker: [Peter swings through the glass wall and kicks Sam backwards. Bucky throws a punch, Peter catches his fist.] You have a metal arm? That is awesome, dude! [Sam hits Peter.] You have the right to remain silent! [Mid-air Peter fends Sam off, then swings after him using his webs.]
    [Iron Man shoots rockets that explode just beyond Clint and Wanda.]
    [Steve fights hand to hand with T'Challa. War Machine locks on.]
    James Rhodes: Sorry, Cap. This won't kill you but it ain't gonna tickle either. [He smacks Steve's shield with a mace.]
    Tony Stark: [Hovering above the ground.] Wanda, I think you hurt Vision's feelings.
    Wanda Maximoff: You locked me in my room.
    Tony Stark: Okay. First, that's an exaggeration. Second, I did it to protect you. Hey, Clint.
    Clint Barton: Hey, man.
    Tony Stark: Clearly, retirement doesn't suit you. You got tired of shooting golf?
    Clint Barton: Well, I played 18, I shot 18. Just can't seem to miss. [He fires an arrow which Tony deflects.]
    Tony Stark: First time for everything.
    Clint Barton: Made you look.
    [Suddenly a car slams past Iron Man. He looks up as dozens more come crashing down. Wanda rows her glowing hands until Iron Man is buried under a pile of cars.]
    FRIDAY: Multiple contusions detected.
    Tony Stark: Yeah, I detected that too.
    [Peter wings through the rafters in the terminal, chasing Sam who flies backwards firing shots. Peter stops on a high beam.]
    Peter Parker: Oh god. [Bucky throws something at him.] Hey buddy, I think you lost this! [Peter throws it back. Sam kicks him off the beam and Peter fires a web which sends Sam crashing to the floor. Peter webs Sam's wrist to a balcony railing.] Those wings carbon fiber?
    Sam Wilson: Is this stuff coming out of you?
    Peter Parker: That would explain the rigidity-flexibility ratio, which, gotta say, that's awesome, man.
    Sam Wilson: I don't know if you've been a fight before but there's usually not this much talking.
    Peter Parker: Alright, sorry, my bad. [He swings down and Bucky jumps in the way. Bucky and Sam fall through the glass down onto the next floor and Peter webs them.] Guys, look. I'd love to keep this up but I've only got one job here today and I gotta impress Mr. Stark, so, l'm really sorry. [Redwing drags Peter through the glass wall.] Wwahhhh!
    Bucky Barnes: You couldn't have done that earlier?
    Sam Wilson: I hate you.
    [Outside Steve kicks War Machine out of the air, then sends T'Challa reeling. War Machine's mace is broken.]
    James Rhodes: Great.
    Scott Lang: Hey, Cap, heads up! [He throws Steve a miniature truck.] Throw it at this. Now! [Steve throws it and the truck enlarges, tumbling towards War Machine.]
    James Rhodes: Oh, come on! [The truck lands and explodes.]
    Scott Lang: Oh, man. I thought it was a water truck. Uh . . . sorry. [Scott and Steve run off.]
    James Rhodes: Alright. Now, I'm pissed.
    Natasha Romanoff: [Tony helps her up.] Is this, part of the plan?
    Tony Stark: Well, my plan was to go easy on them. You wanna switch it up?
    Clint Barton: [To Wanda as he spots the Quinjet.] There's our ride.
    Steve Rogers: Come on!

    [Steve's team runs towards the Quinjet. A fizzing stream of energy slices across the runway and they stop. Vision hovers overhead.]
    Vision: Captain Rogers. I know you believe what you're doing is right. But for the collective good you must surrender now. [Tony's team arrives.]
    Sam Wilson: What do we do, Cap?
    Steve Rogers: We fight.
    Natasha Romanoff: This is gonna end well. [The two teams stride towards each other with grim determination etched on their faces.]
    Peter Parker: They're not stopping.
    Tony Stark: Neither are we. [Everyone breaks into a sprint.]
    [Steve blocks a punch as Iron Man lands. Clint fires an arrow at Vision. War Machine flies after Falcon and Bucky trades blows with T'Challa. An explosive arrow hits Iron Man. Natasha throws Scott, as Peter swings through the air, struggling to evade vehicles projected by Wanda. Bucky lands punches on T'Challa, Clint and Natasha battle with batons. Clint pins her down with his bow.]
    Natasha Romanoff: We're still friends, right?
    Clint Barton: Depends on how hard you hit me. [She spins him with her legs. As she's about to kick his head, her foot stops and glows bright red. Wanda projects Natasha down.]
    Wanda Maximoff: You were pulling your punches. [Clint nods sheepishly.]
    Bucky Barnes: [Bucky and T'Challa have each other by the throat.] I didn't kill your father.
    T'Challa: Then why did you run? [T'Challa pulls Bucky's hand off his neck, then spins him and fly-kicks him backwards. He sprouts claws and aims for Bucky's neck, but Wanda stops his hand, then waves her arms and sends T'Challa crashing into a passenger gangway.]
    [Peter swings past, Steve snaps the web with his shield.]
    Peter Parker: That thing does not obey the laws of physics at all.
    Steve Rogers: Look kid. There's a lot going on here that you don't understand.
    Peter Parker: Mr. Stark said you'd say that. Wow. [he fires webs which stick to Steve's shield and ankle. He pulls and Steve slides towards him. Peter kicks him backwards, then rolls clear.] He also said to go for your legs. [As Steve runs to get his shield, Peter webs his hands and pulls. Steve grits his teeth, spins and somersaults, propelling Peter through the air.]
    Sam Wilson: [Evading fire from Iron Man.] Clint, can you get him off me?
    Clint Barton: Buckled in?
    Scott Lang: Yeah. No, I'm good. I'm good, Arrow Guy. Let's go. Let's go! [Miniaturized Scott is on the tip of Clint's arrow. As he fires it, the head splits and Iron Man shoots the shards. Scott dives between Iron Man's splayed fingers and slips inside the Iron Man Suit at the shoulder joint.]
    Steve Rogers: [Steve catches a web and tugs Peter towards him, knocking him down with the shield. Peter recovers and pulls himself up on top of a gangway.] Stark tell you anything else?
    Peter Parker: That you're wrong. You think you're right. That makes you dangerous. [He swings down and Steve leaps to kick him backwards onto the gangway's leg.]
    Steve Rogers: Guess he had a point. [He throws his shield at the leg and the gangway falls. Peter holds it up.] You got heart, kid. Where're you from?
    Peter Parker: Queens.
    Steve Rogers: Brooklyn. [Steve leaves Peter holding the gangway.]
    Tony Stark: [Clint fires arrows at hovering Iron Man whose arm-lasers malfunction.] Friday?
    FRIDAY: We have some weapon systems offline.
    Tony Stark: They what?
    Scott Lang: Oh, you're gonna have to take this into the shop.
    Tony Stark: Who's speaking?
    Scott Lang: It's your conscience. We don't talk a lot these days.
    Tony Stark: Friday?
    FRIDAY: Deploying fire suppression system.
    Scott Lang: Uh -oh. Oh boy. Whoa! [Inside the suit Scott sprints through narrow banks of components, chased by a rolling cloud of CO2. He's ejected from the suit.]
    Bucky Barnes: [To Steve.] We gotta go. That guy's probably in Siberia by now.
    Steve Rogers: We gotta draw out the flyers. I'll take Vision. You get to the jet.
    Sam Wilson: No, you get to the jet! Both of you! [Being chased by War Machine.] The rest of us aren't getting out of here.
    Clint Barton: As much as I hate to admit it, if we're gonna win this one, some of us might have to lose it.
    Sam Wilson: This isn't the real fight, Steve.
    Steve Rogers: Alright, Sam, what's the play?
    Sam Wilson: We need a diversion, something big.
    Scott Lang: I got something kind of big, but I can't hold it very long. On my signal, run like hell. And if I tear myself in half . . . don't come back for me.
    Bucky Barnes: He's gonna tear himself in half?
    Steve Rogers: You're sure about this, Scott?
    Scott Lang: I do it all the time. I mean once . . . in a lab. Then I passed out. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the boss. I'm the BOSS! [He leaps from mobile stairs and lands on War Machine's back as he flies past. He operates his suit's wrist, shuts his eyes and activates a remote. Scott grows into a towering Behemoth and grabs War Machine's leg.]
    Peter Parker: Holy shit!
    James Rhodes: Okay, tiny dude is big now. He's big now.
    Steve Rogers: I guess that's the signal.
    Sam Wilson: Way to go, Tic Tac!
    Tony Stark: Give me back my Rhodey. [Sam flies feet first into Iron Man.]
    Peter Parker: I got him! [Scott sends War Machine flying and Peter catches him with a web.]
    [Scott kicks a bus towards T'Challa. Vision descends and braces himself, splitting the bus in two and protecting T'Challa from harm. T'Challa spots Steve and Bucky sprinting past. Chasing Sam Iron Man evades Scott swinging the wing of a plane at him.]
    Tony Stark: Okay, anybody on our side hiding any shocking and fantastic abilities they'd like to disclose, I'm open to suggestion.
    [Sam arrows towards Iron Man, firing Red Wing which cracks into Tony's helmet. Scott blocks T'Challa's path.]
    Scott Lang: You wanna get to them… you gotta go through me. [He sweeps his gigantic foot through the crates T'Challa's standing on, smashing them to pieces. Scott is engulfed in explosions as War Machine swoops towards him with Peter clinging to a web stuck to War Machine's back. He fires more webs and wraps them around Scott's over-sized arms.]
    [Clint fires arrows at T'Challa who catches two right in front of his face. After the arrowheads explode he drops them and rises extending his claws.]
    Clint Barton: We haven't met yet. [He flattens his bow and spins it around.] I'm Clint.
    T'Challa: I don't care. [Wielding the bow like a staff Clint attacks T'Challa who a acrobatically ducks then counters with a high kick.]
    [Giant Ant-Man punches War Machine in the air and swings a gangway towards him as he recovers. War Machine opens fire and the gangway disintegrates. Scott tries to stamp on War Machine who dives clear evading a lunge of Scott's hand. War Machine is struck by something.]
    James Rhodes: Ahhh! [Wanda waves her hands flinging vehicles into War Machines path.]
    Scott Lang: Get off. [Distracted by Peter Ant-Man doesn't spot Vision curling into a ball and ramming into him. Vision spots Steve and Bucky approaching the hangar as Ant-Man wavers. He simply floats through Ant-Man's chest. Something just flew in me! [Vision fires a shining beam of energy from his mind stone and the control tower collapses towards the entrance of the hangar. Wanda struggles to slow its collapse. Then War Machine descends behind her fires a sonic disruptor. Wanda holds her head and screams. The tower falls all around Steve and Bucky, but they make it into the hangar where Natasha is waiting for them.]
    Natasha Romanoff: You're not gonna stop.
    Steve Rogers: You know I can't.
    Natasha Romanoff: I'm gonna regret this. [She stuns T'Challa who's arrived behind them.] Go. [Steve and Bucky run for the Quinjet as she keeps T'Challa at bay.]
    Peter Parker: [Outside] Hey, guys, you ever see that really old movie, Empire Strikes Back?
    James Rhodes: Jesus, Tony, how old is this guy?
    Tony Stark: I don't know, I didn't carbon-date him. He's on the young side.
    Peter Parker: [He swings towards Ant-Man.] You know that part . . . where they're on the snow planet . . . with the walking thingies? [He wraps webs around Scott's legs.]
    Tony Stark: Maybe the kid's on to something.
    James Rhodes: High now, Tony. Go high.
    Peter Parker: [He swings around and around Ant-Man's legs as Iron Man and War Machine power towards his head, both landing blows together.] YES! Ha ha! That was awesome! [Giant Ant-Man topples. A flailing limb catching Peter and knocking him flying just before Scott slams into the ground on his back. He returns to normal size and removes the face-plate of his helmet, grimacing.]
    Scott Lang: Does anyone have any orange slices?
    Tony Stark: [He lands by Peter who's in a heap. Retracting the helmet Tony looks concerned.] Kid, you alright?
    Peter Parker: Hey! Get off me!
    Tony Stark: Same side. Guess who. Hi. It's me.
    Peter Parker: Oh. Hey, man.
    Tony Stark: Yeah.
    Peter Parker: That was scary.
    Tony Stark: Yeah. You're done. Alright?
    Peter Parker: What?
    Tony Stark: You did a good job. Stay down.
    Peter Parker: No, I'm good. I'm fine.
    Tony Stark: Stay down.
    Peter Parker: No, it's good I gotta get him back!
    Tony Stark: You're going home or I'll call Aunt May! You're done!
    Peter Parker: Wait. Mr. Stark, wait! I'm not done, I'm not . . . [He slumps down.] Okay, I'm done. I'm done.
    Natasha Romanoff: [In the partially wrecked hangar the Quinjet's engines fire and the guns blast debris from the entrance. Natasha keeps T'Challa held until the jet rises. Black Panther leaps, but can't keep hold and the Quinjet flies out of the hangar. War Machine flies after it. In the hangar:] I said I'd help you find him, not catch him. There's a difference.

    Vision: [Outside Vision kneels beside Wanda and gently holds her in his arms. She pants for breath.] I'm sorry.
    Wanda Maximoff: Me, too.
    Vision: It's as I said. Catastrophe.
    [Piloting the Quinjet, Steve looks over his shoulder and spots War Machine encroaching to the right. Steve pushes forward on the thrusters. Iron Man flies beside War Machine and Falcon follows them.]
    James Rhodes: Vision, I got a bandit on my six. [Falcon fires small explosives which erupt and buffet War Machine.] Vision! You copy? Target his thrusters, turn him into a glider.
    [Vision takes aim and fires his head laser. Falcon spots it coming and tucks into a tumble. The laser overshoots and slices through the core on War Machines chest plate. War Machine loses power and goes into a spinning free fall.]
    Tony Stark: Rhodey! [Iron Man and Falcon dive.]
    James Rhodes: Tony, I'm flying dead stick. [As he plunges the suit emits black smoke. Iron Man swoops down towards him. Rhodes' eyes start to close.]
    Tony Stark: RHODES! [Mar Machine smacks into a wide, grassy field just before Iron Man lands nearby. His helmet retracts and he pulls off War Machine's face plate. Rhodes' eyes are closed and there's blood on his face.] Read vitals.
    FRIDAY: Heartbeat detected. Emergency medical is on its way.
    Sam Wilson: [He swoops down and lands on his feet. His wings retract.] I'm sorry. [Tony zaps Falcon backwards with a blast of energy from the palm of his suit. Vision glides to the ground just in front of Falcon. Stony faced Tony remains with his arms around War Machine.]

    [Somewhere in Siberia, Zemo makes a phone call.]
    German Innkeeper: Guten Morgen, Zimmerservice? (Good morning. Room service.)
    Helmut Zemo: Guten Morgen Frau Leiber. Zimmer 201 hier (Good morning, Mrs. Leiber. [subtitled] This is room 201.)
    German Innkeeper: Ah, Herr Müller. Speck und schwarzer Kaffee für Sie, ja? (Ah, Mr. Müller. [subtitled] Bacon and black coffee again today?)
    Helmut Zemo: Wie gut Sie mich kennen. ([subtitled] You know me so well.)
    [In his room in Berlin, Germany.]
    German Innkeeper: Hallo? Ihr Frühstück ist hier. Darf ich mich reinlassen? Herr Müller? Herr Müller? Oh mein Gott! ([subtitled] Hello? Your breakfast is here. May I let myself in? Mr Müller? Mr Müller? Oh God!) [She comes in and discovers the dead body of Dr. Theo Broussard in the bathtub.]

    [Steve flies the Quinjet towards mountains, Bucky sits behind him.]
    Bucky Barnes: What's gonna happen to your friends?
    Steve Rogers: [Steve stares ahead, heavyhearted. He sighs and shakes his head.] Whatever it is… I'll deal with it.
    Bucky Barnes: [He looks thoughtful.] I don't know if I'm worth all this, Steve.
    Steve Rogers: [He glances around at Bucky.] What you did all those years . . . it wasn't you. You didn't have a choice.
    Bucky Barnes: I know. But I did it.

    [At a hospital Rhodes lies inside an CT-scanner. He's in a blue gown covering his body. Tony paces up to Vision who watches Rhodes grave faced.]
    Tony Stark: How did this happen?
    Vision: I became distracted.
    Tony Stark: I didn't think that was possible.
    Vision: Neither did I. [Tony leaves Vision looking in on Rhodes. Along the corridor Tony spots an equally concerned Natasha.]
    [Tony and Natasha stand on a balcony looking towards a row of trees.]
    Tony Stark: The doctors say he shattered L4 through S1. Extreme laceration in the spinal cord. Probably looking at some form of paralysis.
    Natasha Romanoff: Steve's not gonna stop. If you don't either, Rhodey's gonna be the best case scenario.
    Tony Stark: You let them go, Nat.
    Natasha Romanoff: We played this wrong.
    Tony Stark: 'We'? Boy, it must be hard to shake the whole double agent thing, huh? It sticks in the DNA.
    Natasha Romanoff: Are you incapable of letting go of your ego for one goddamn second?
    Tony Stark: T'Challa told Ross what you did, so . . . they're coming for you.
    Natasha Romanoff: I'm not the one that needs to watch their back. [She walks away.]
    Tony Stark: [He activates holographic images appearing on his wrist device.] What am I looking at, Friday?
    FRIDAY: Priority upload from Berlin police.
    Tony Stark: Fire up the chopper.
    [Tony flies over a stormy sea in the chopper. He looks surveillance images on a tablet computer.]
    FRIDAY: The Task Force called for a psychiatrist as soon as Barnes was captured. The UN dispatched Dr. Theo Broussard from Geneva within the hour. He was met by this man.
    Tony Stark: Did you run facial recognition yet?
    FRIDAY: What do I look like?
    Tony Stark: Uh, I don't know. I've been picturing a red head.
    FRIDAY: You must be thinking of someone else.
    Tony Stark: Must be.
    FRIDAY: The fake doctor is actually Colonel Helmut Zemo, Sokovian Intelligence. [Tony projects the image.] Zemo ran Echo Skorpion, a Sokovian covert kill squad.
    Tony Stark: So, what happened to the real Broussard?
    FRIDAY: He was found dead in a Berlin hotel room. Where police also found a wig and facial prosthesis approximating the appearance of one James Buchanan Barnes.
    Tony Stark: Son of a bitch. Get this to Ross.
    FRIDAY: Yes, Boss.

    [A wide and flat, snow covered landscape. A mountain looms on the horizon. A caterpillar truck stops on the windswept mountain plateau. Zemo gets out of the vehicle. Set on rocks is an entrance with huge, rusted double doors. Zemo hacks away at the wall beside the doors. he uncovers a control panel and keys in a code whilst referring to the red book. The huge, curved double doors break open a crack. Zemo pulls them open wider. He shines a flash light and pulls down the hood of his coat.
    Inside is a vast, gloomy space cramped with shelves stacked with filing boxes. Zemo moves a ladder along and searches the boxes. he climbs up the ladder and removes a filing box labeled: 'декабря 1991' (December 1991).
    Zemo walks along a tunnel which opens into a cavernous chamber with a high ceiling. He carries a VHS cassette and a flash light. Standing around the chamber a five large, clear sided capsules. They glow a gold yellow inside. Frowning Zemo walks up to one of the capsules and shines his flash light inside. In the capsule, motionless in a state of suspended animation is the enhanced soldier Josef.]

    [Tony flies the shopper low over the broiling sea. He operates the chopper with a touch screen computer in a wall panel.]
    Guard: [on radio] This is the Raft Prison Control. You're clear for landing, Mr. Stark.
    [The sea swells and surges as Raft Prison rises up from beneath. A huge, fortified, circular structure with small lights around the sides. Two semi-circular doors open up in the flat circular top. The chopper lands on a helipad and the doors close above it. Tony, who's left arm is in a sling walks up to Secretary Ross.]
    Tony Stark: So? You got the files? Let's reroute the satellites, start facial scanning for this Zemo guy.
    Secretary Ross: You seriously think I'm gonna listen to you after that fiasco in Leipzig? You're lucky you're not in one of these cells. [Ross looks at Tony sternly and leads on through a thick, steel security door. Soldiers stand guard in an operations room. Tony looks at a surveillance screen. it shows Wanda, sitting hunched and bedraggled in a cramped prison cell.]
    [Another security door opens. Tony walks into a chamber surrounded by large, bared windows. Beyond the windows are a number of prison cells. Tony takes in his surroundings.]
    Clint Barton: [clapping] The Futurist, gentlemen! The Futurist is here! He sees all! He knows what's best for you, whether your like it or not.
    Tony Stark: Give me a break, Barton. I had no idea they'll put you here. Come on.
    Clint Barton: [spits] Yeah, well, you knew they'd put us somewhere, Tony.
    Tony Stark: Yeah, but not some super-max floating ocean pokey. You know, this place is for maniacs. This is a place for . . .
    Clint Barton: Criminals? [He stands up.] Criminals, Tony. Think that's the word you're looking for. [He eyes Tony through the bars.] Right? That didn't used to mean me. Or Sam, or Wanda. But here we are.
    Tony Stark: Because you broke the law.
    Clint Barton: Yeah.
    Tony Stark: I didn't make you.
    Clint Barton: La, la, la, la, la . . .
    Tony Stark: You read it, you broke it.
    Clint Barton: La, la, la, la la…
    Tony Stark: Alright, you're all grown up, you got a wife and kids. I don't understand, why didn't you think about them before you chose the wrong side? [He walks away.]
    Clint Barton: You gotta watch your back with this guy. There's a chance he's gonna break it.
    Scott Lang: Hank Pym always said, you never can trust a Stark.
    Tony Stark: Who are you?
    Scott Lang: Come on, man.
    Sam Wilson: How's Rhodes?
    Tony Stark: They're flying him to Columbia Medical tomorrow. So . . . fingers cross. [Sam shakes his head.]What do you need? They feed you yet?
    Sam Wilson: [He raises his eyebrows.] You're the good cop now?
    Tony Stark: I'm just the guy who needs to know where Steve went.
    Sam Wilson: Well, you better go get a bad cop, because you're gonna have to go Mark Fuhrman on my ass to get information out of me.
    Tony Stark: Oh, I just knocked the 'A' out of their 'AV'. We got about 30 seconds before they realize it's not their equipment.
    Secretary Ross: [In the operations room.] What did you do? Get it back up!
    Tony Stark: [Back in the cell.] Just look. Because that is the fellow who was supposed to interrogate Barnes. [He shoes a holographic image of Doctor Broussard.] Clearly, I made a mistake. Sam, I was wrong.
    Sam Wilson: That's a first.
    Tony Stark: Cap is definitely off the reservation but he's about to need all the help he can get. We don't know each other very well. You don't have to…
    Sam Wilson: Hey, it's alright. [Tony leans closer to the window. Sam sighs and looks uneasy.] Look, I'll tell you… but you have to go alone and as a friend.
    Tony Stark: Easy.
    [Tony walks to his chopper.]
    Secretary Ross: Stark? Did he give you anything on Rogers?
    Tony Stark: Nope. Told me to go to hell. I'm going back to the compound instead, but you can call me anytime. I'll put you on hold, I like to watch the line blink. [Ross stares at Tony who smiles as he gets in the chopper and the door slides shut. The chopper rises off the helipad and flies away. The doors close on the prison roof.]
    [Sitting in the chopper Tony un-clips the sling holding his left arm. He cradles his arm in his hand for a moment. He slowly reaches out the injured arm and presses a button on a panel. The Iron Man Suit wraps itself around Tony, a hatch opens and he flies out of the chopper as Iron Man. He speeds through dark clouds. Close behind T'Challa is at the controls of a Quinjet.]

    [Steve brings his Quinjet into land besides Zemo's caterpillar truck on the remote icy mountain top. The jet's wings fold up beside the fuselage.
    On board Bucky pulls out rack of guns labeled 'Romanoff'. He takes a light machine gun.
    Bucky and Steve stand together, waiting for the exit ramp to descend.]
    Steve Rogers: You remember that time we had to ride back from Rockaway Beach in the back of that freezer truck?
    Bucky Barnes: Was that the time we used our train money to buy hot dogs?
    Steve Rogers: You blew three bucks trying to win that stuffed bear for a redhead.
    Bucky Barnes: What was her name again?
    Steve Rogers: Dolores. You called her Dot.
    Bucky Barnes: She's gotta be a hundred years old right now.
    Steve Rogers: So are we, pal. [He clamps his hand on Bucky's shoulder.]
    [Now wearing his helmet Steve walks with Bucky up to the entrance set in rock. The door is still open.]
    Steve Rogers: He can't have been here more than a few hours.
    Bucky Barnes: Long enough to wake them up.
    [Steve leads them into the cast bunker. They travel down into the depths inside a caged elevator. it stops in the bowls of the bunker, doors slide open. Steve nods to Bucky and heaves up the cage door. Bucky readies his heavy duty machine gun and they walk along a corridor, keeping close to a wall. Bucky looks into an alcove full of junk then he and Steve move on up some stairs. At the sound of a loud thud they spin around, aiming down the corridor.]
    Steve Rogers: You ready?
    Bucky Barnes: Yeah.
    [Double doors part, forced open by Iron Man. Steve stares in surprise. Tony walks towards Steve and Bucky and retracts the suit's helmet.]
    Tony Stark: You seem a little defensive.
    [Bucky keeps his gun up while Steve walks to meet Tony with his shield covering his body.]
    Steve Rogers: It's been a long day.
    Tony Stark: At ease, Soldier. I'm not currently after you.
    Steve Rogers: Then why are you here?
    Tony Stark: Could be your story's not so crazy. Maybe. Ross has no idea I'm here. I'd like to keep it that way. Otherwise, I gotta arrest myself.
    Steve Rogers: Well, that sounds like a lot of paperwork. [He lowers his shield.] It's good to see you, Tony.
    Tony Stark: You too, Cap. [to Bucky] Hey, Manchurian Candidate, you're killing me. There's a truce here. You can drop . . . [Steve signs Bucky to lower his weapon and he does.]
    [the three of them cautiously walk along a corridor. T'Challa in his Black Panther Suit is hiding around a corner, watching them.]
    [With his helmet and face plate reengaged Iron Man leads Steve and Bucky towards the enormous chamber with the capsules standing in it.]
    Tony Stark: I got heat signatures.
    Steve Rogers: How many?
    Tony Stark: Uh, one.
    [As they enter the vast chamber the lights come on. Hazy, yellow mist descends within the capsules. As well as Josef, each one contains an enhanced soldier from the 1991 experiment. Steve and the others look around, bewildered.]
    Helmut Zemo: [on speaker] If it's any comfort, they died in their sleep. [All of the enhanced soldiers have been shot in the head. Bucky stares at Josef's corpse.] Did you really think I wanted more of you?
    Bucky Barnes: What the hell?
    Helmut Zemo: I'm grateful to them, though. They brought you here. [Zemo appears in a control room. Steve hurls his shield but it flies back.] Please, Captain. The Soviets built this chamber to withstand the launch blast of UR-100 rockets.
    Tony Stark: I'm betting I could beat that.
    Helmut Zemo: Oh, I'm sure you could, Mr. Stark. Given time. But then you'd never know why you came.
    Steve Rogers: You killed innocent people in Vienna just to bring us here? [Black Panther watches from the shadows. Steve looks at Zemo through a window.]
    Helmut Zemo: I thought about nothing else for over a year. I studied you. I followed you. But now that you're standing here, I just realized . . . there's a bit of green in the blue of your eyes. How nice to find a flaw.
    Steve Rogers: You're Sokovian. Is that what this is about?
    Helmut Zemo: Sokovia was a failed state long before you blew it to hell. No. I'm here because I made a promise.
    Steve Rogers: [He studies Zemo.] You lost someone?
    Helmut Zemo: [He looks grave, clicks his tongue.] I lost everyone. And so will you. [He plays surveillance footage from December 16th 1991. Steve steps over to the screen.] An empire toppled by its enemies can rise again. But one which crumples from within? That's dead . . . forever.
    Tony Stark: [He looks at the freeze frame of a secluded road and the date, December 16 1991. His eyes rove, anxiously.] I know that road. What is this?

    [The video plays. That car that the Winter Soldier forced off the road crashes into a tree. Tony watches intently as the Winter Soldier rides up and gets off his motorbike. Steve watches Tony's increasing unease. The driver lies on the ground beside the car. It's Tony's father, Howard.
    Howard Stark: Help my wife. Please. Help.
    [The Winter Soldier walks over and hoists him up by his hair. He stares at Howard's bloody face. Howard stares back pleadingly.]
    Howard Stark: Sergeant Barnes?
    Maria Stark: Howard!
    [Tony glares at Bucky. In the video the Winter Soldier pounds Howard hard in the face with his metal fist.]
    Maria Stark: Howard!
    [In grief Tony closes his eyes for a moment. On screen his father slumps dead. The Winter Soldier puts him in the driver's seat with his face against the steering wheel. Tony stares in horror. Maria's in the passenger seat with blood streaked down her face. The Winter Soldier walks around and grips her throat. Expressionless he strangles Maria. Tony watches the screen stunned. The Winter Soldier walks up and aims a gun at the surveillance camera.

    [Steve watches Tony anxiously. Tony lunges towards Bucky, Steve stops him.]
    Steve Rogers: Tony. Tony.
    Tony Stark: [Consumed with grief and tears glistening in his eyes he turns and looks at Steve.] Did you know?
    Steve Rogers: I didn't know it was him.
    Tony Stark: Don't bullshit me, Rogers! Did you know?
    Steve Rogers: Yes.
    [Tony steps back, his chin jutting upwards twitchy. Tony reengages the Iron Man helmet. He punches Steve to the floor and deflects gunfire from Bucky, disarming him. he grabs Bucky and flies across the chamber. He slams him onto the floor, then jumps on his arms. Steve's shield hits Iron Man, distracting him. Steve barges him backwards, Iron Man shoulders him to the floor and shackles his ankles. Bucky punches Iron Man who just lifts him and slams him against a machine. Iron Man raises a fist but Bucky twists it. A rocket shoots out of Iron Man's arm, a fireball explodes. Steve slices his shackles as a towering structure of pipework collapses. Tony and Bucky are thrown down a level as twisted metal falls around them, showering sparks.]
    Steve Rogers: [to Bucky] Get out of here!
    [As Bucky bolts Iron Man fires, but misses. Steve lands in front of him. Bucky hits a control panel and the silo-styled door overhead starts to open.]
    Steve Rogers: It wasn't him, Tony. Hydra had control of his mind!
    Tony Stark: Move!
    Steve Rogers: It wasn't him!
    [Steve grabs Iron Man's ankle in mid air and smashes it. Iron Man blocks Steve by shooting down rubble, then falteringly flies up the tower.]
    FRIDAY: Left boot jet failing. Flight systems compromised.
    Tony Stark: Ah crap.
    [Above him Bucky leaps from platform to platform. With stuttering jets Iron Man gives chase, then kicks Bucky and takes aim, but the energy bold rebounds off Steve's shield onto himself. Iron Man drops like a stone and lands on a lower platform.]
    Steve Rogers: He's not going to stop. Go.
    [As Iron Man soars upwards, Steve leaps and shoots a wire which wraps around Iron Man's neck and drags him back down. He deflects Steve's shield, then tries to target Bucky.]
    Tony Stark: Come on, come on.
    FRIDAY: Targeting system's knackered, boss.
    Tony Stark: I'm eyeballing it. [His helmet retracts and he shuts one eye, taking aim at the opening hatch. He fires and hits the giant hinge which explodes, cutting of Bucky's escape route. He flies up, blocks two swings from an iron pipe from Bucky, then grabs him around the neck from behind.] Do you even remember them?
    Bucky Barnes: I remember all of them.
    [Bucky pushes them both from the walkway, Steve jumps into them to deflect their fall. Bucky lands on a platform while Tony and Steve land on the concrete floor besides opening in the wall where snow drifts in from outside]
    Steve Rogers: This isn't gonna change what happened.
    Tony Stark: I don't care. He killed my mom.
    [They trade punches and Iron Man ends up pinning Steve down. Bucky picks up Captain America's shield and leaps down to help. As the two super soldiers fist fight with Iron Man the shield changes hands between them until Tony manages to zap Steve who is thrown back into the wall. Bucky struggles to hold Iron Man at bay as he unleashes an energy beam, then he forces Iron Man against the opposite wall and grips the glowing core in the chest of the Iron Man Suit. A blast of energy knocks Bucky down, metal arm completely blown away. Tony zaps him again. Steve rushes him with his shield up and Iron Man fires right at it]

    [Zemo is outside, listening to a phone message.]
    Zemo's Wife: You should've seen his little face. Just try, okay? I'm going to bed. I love you.
    T'Challa: [Sneaks up behind him] I almost kill the wrong man.
    Helmut Zemo: Hardly an innocent one.
    T'Challa: This is all you wanted? To see them rip each other apart.
    Helmut Zemo: [Deletes the voice message] My father lived outside the city. I thought we would be safe there. My son was excited. He could see the Iron Man from the car window. I told my wife, "Don't worry. They are fighting in the city. We're miles from harm." When the dust cleared . . . and the screaming stopped. It took me two days until I found their bodies. My father . . . still holding my wife and son in his arms. And the Avengers? They went home. I knew I couldn't kill them. More powerful men than me have tried. But, if I could get them to kill each other . . . I'm sorry about your father. He seemed a good man. With a dutiful son.
    T'Challa: Vengeance has consumed you. It's consuming them. [He blinks ruefully and retracts the claws in his gloves.] I am done letting it consume me. Justice will come soon enough.
    Helmut Zemo: [Holding a gun Zemo smiles thinly.] Tell that to the dead. [He tries to shoot himself but T'Challa grabs him just as he fires.]
    T'Challa: The living are not done with you yet.

    [Tony and Steve are still fighting in the silo.]
    FRIDAY: You can't beat him hand to hand.
    Tony Stark: Analyse his fight pattern.
    FRIDAY: Scanning! [Iron Man's HUD flashes red as Steve lands blow after blow.] Countermeasures ready.
    Tony Stark: [He grabs Captain America's shield.] Let's kick his ass. [He flings the shield away then zaps Steve backwards, head over heels. Steve rises and Tony blocks his punches then zaps him to his knees, right in front of Bucky who's lying on his back.]
    Steve Rogers: He's my friend.
    Tony Stark: So was I. [He punches Steve then throws him back towards the gaps in the wall.] Stay down. Final warning.
    Steve Rogers: [He struggles to his feet, his face bloody and his gate weary. He raises his fists and stares Iron Man down.] I can do this all day.
    [Iron man raises his left palm ready to fire. Bucky grabs his leg and Tony spins, kicking him in the face. Steve grabs Iron Man and lifts him over his head, then throws him down, punches him and bashes his mask off with his shield before striking down hard on the suit's core.Tony looks horrified and glowers fearfully at Steve who pants for breath. Both have blood spattered across their faces. Steve looks back at Tony then shuts his eyes and slumps down. The shield remains upright, stuck upright in the center of the Iron Man Suit. When Steve struggles up again he takes hold of the shield, gripping the edge and pulling it free. He steps away from Tony who rolls painfully onto his side. Bucky lies bloodied but conscious, Steve reaches out and pulls him to his feet, holding him up as Tony looks on.]
    Tony Stark: That shield doesn't belong to you. [Steve turns his back.] You don't deserve it. My father made that shield! [Steve stops, raises his chin, then drops the shield and walks away with Bucky's arm around his shoulder.]

    [In a secure chamber at the Berlin UN bunker Zemo's contained in a prison pod, his ankles cuffed to his seat. Everett Ross enters the chamber.]
    Everett Ross: Meals at eight and five. Toilet privileges twice a day. Raise your voice, zap. Touch the glass, zap. You step out of line, you deal with me. Please, step out of line. Hmm? [Zemo just stares.] So how does it feel? To spend all that time, all that effort . . . and, to see it fail so spectacularly?
    Helmut Zemo: [He looks up to meet Everett's gaze.] Did it?

    [Back at Avengers HQ, Tony is with Rhodes as he tentatively walks beside parallel bars with tech on his legs.]
    Tony Stark: It's just the first pass.
    James Rhodes: Yeah.
    Tony Stark: Give me some feedback. Anything you can think of. Shock absorption. Lateral movement. Cup holder?
    James Rhodes: You may wanna think about some AC down in . . . [He falls onto his hands.]
    Tony Stark: Let's go. I'll give you a hand.
    James Rhodes: No, no, don't. Don't help me. Don't help me. [He rises to his hands and knees, turns to sit on the floor beside Tony.] 138. 138 combat missions. That's how many I've flown, Tony. Every one of them could've been my last, but I flew 'em. Because the fight needed to be fought. It's the same with these Accords. I signed because it was the right thing to do. And, yeah, this sucks. This is . . . this is a bad beat. But it hasn't change my mind. I don't think. [He gives a crooked smile and takes Tony's hand.]
    Tony Stark: You okay?
    James Rhodes: Oh yeah.
    FedEx Driver Stan Lee: [Knocks on the window with a packet in his hand.] Are you Tony "Stank"?
    James Rhodes: Yes, this is--this is Tony "Stank". You're in the right place. Thank you for that! I'm never dropping that, by the way. Table for one, Mr. "Stank". Please, by the bathroom.

    [Tony is alone, opens the package and finds an envelope and a phone inside.]
    Steve Rogers: [letter to Stark] Tony, I'm glad you're back at the compound. I don't like the idea of you rattling around a mansion by yourself. We all need family. The Avengers are yours, maybe more so than mine. I've been on my own since I was 18. I never really fit in anywhere, even in the army. My faith's in people, I guess. Individuals. And I'm happy to say that, for the most part, they haven't let me down. Which is why I can't let them down either. Locks can be replaced, but maybe they shouldn't. I know I hurt you, Tony. I guess I thought by not telling you about your parents I was sparing you, but I can see now that I was really sparing myself, and I'm sorry. Hopefully one day you can understand. I wish we agreed on the Accords, I really do. I know you're doing what you believe in, and that's all any of us can do. That's all any of us should . . . [As Steve reads his letter off screen it's indicated that he breaks his team out of the Raft.]
    FRIDAY: Priority call from Secretary Ross. There's been a breach at the Raft prison.
    Tony Stark: Yeah, put him through.
    Secretary Ross: Tony, we have a problem.
    Tony Stark: Ah, please hold.
    Secretary Ross: No. Don't . . .
    Steve Rogers: [letter to Stark] So, no matter what. I promise you, if you need us, if you need me, I'll be there.

    [Wakanda, medical facility.]
    Steve Rogers: You sure about this?
    Bucky Barnes: I can't trust my own mind. So, until they figure out how to get this stuff out of my head I think going back under is the best thing . . . for everybody. [He goes back into cryo.]
    [Steve stands staring through a window, T'Challa walks towards him.]
    Steve Rogers: Thank you for this.
    T'Challa: Your friend and my father, they were both victims. If I can help one of them find peace…
    Steve Rogers: You know, If they find out he's here . . . they'll come for him.
    T'Challa: Let them try.

    [In Peter's room on Queens. May speaks to him from somewhere in the apartment.]
    May Parker: So. Who was it? Who hit you?
    Peter Parker: Some guy. So itchy, man. God. [He fiddles with a wrist band.]
    May Parker: What's "some guy's" name?
    Peter Parker: Uh, Steve.
    May Parker: Steve? From 12-C? With the overbite?
    Peter Parker: No, no, no. You don't know him, he's from Brooklyn. [Peter's wrist band emits a red beam which he hides when his aunt comes into the room.] Ouch.
    May Parker: Well . . . I hope you got a few good licks in.
    Peter Parker: Yeah, I got quite a few in, actually. His friend was huge. Like huge. [May gives him ice in a towel.] That's way better. Thank you.
    May Parker: Okay, tough guy. [She smiles broadly then leaves the room.]
    Peter Parker: Love you, May. Hey, can you shut the door? [He shines the red beam onto his bedroom ceiling and grins looking up at a glowing image of Spider-Man's mask.]
    [the final screen text shows 'Spider-Man will return']
    [End of Captain America: Civil War]

Announcer: [announcement over speaker, set over Wanda and Pietro holding hands] Report to your stations immediately. This is not a drill. We are under attack. We are under attack. [the Avengers are in the process of infiltrating a HYDRA base in Sokovia, making their way through the woods and fighting soldiers]

Tony Stark: [Tony, flying up to the base in his suit, hits a forcefield.] Shit!

Steve Rogers: Language! JARVIS, what's the view from upstairs?

JARVIS: The central building is protected by some kind of energy shield. Strucker's technology is well beyond any other HYDRA base we've taken.

Thor: Loki's scepter must be here. Strucker couldn't mount this defense without it. At long last.

[Natasha knocks out some soldiers]

Natasha Romanoff: “At long last” is lasting a little long, boys.

Clint Barton: [as some soldiers shoot at him] Yeah. I think we lost the element of surprise.

Tony Stark: Wait a second. No one else is going to deal with the fact that Cap just said "language?"

Steve Rogers: I know. [Steve throws his bike at some soldiers driving up in their truck] It just slipped out.

[at the HYDRA Research Base, Sokovia, Eastern Europe]

Strucker: Who gave the order to attack?

Fortress Soldier: Herr Strucker, it's the Avengers.

Other Fortress Soldier: They landed in the far woods, the perimeter guard panicked.

Strucker: [to List] They have to be after the scepter. [to the soldier] Can we hold them?

Fortress Soldier: They’re the Avengers!

Strucker: Deploy the rest of the tanks.

Fortress Soldier: Yes, sir.

Strucker: Concentrate fire on the weak ones. A hit can make them close ranks. [talking to Dr. List] Everything we've accomplished... But we're on the verge of our greatest breakthrough.

Dr. List: Then let's show them what we've accomplished. Send out the twins.

Strucker: It's too soon.

Dr. List: It's what they signed up for.

Strucker: My men can hold them.

[Stark flies to the HYDRA base to break in]

Jarvis: Sir, the city is taking fire.

Tony Stark: Well, we know Strucker's not going to worry about civilian casualties. Send in the Iron Legion.

Iron Legion: [the Iron Legion flies in; to the civilians] This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. We are here to help. This quadrant is unsafe. Please back away. Please back away. We wish to avoid collateral damage and will inform you when this current conflict is resolved. We are here to help. [As the civilians chant "Avengers go home," a man throws a bottle of something corrosive at the Iron Legion, and it hits one of the bots in the head] We are here to help.

[Back at the HYDRA base; Strucker speaks to his soldiers]

Strucker: We will not yield. The Americans sent their circus freaks to test us. We will send them back in bags. No surrender!

Soldiers: No surrender!

Strucker: [quietly to List] I am going to surrender. You will delete everything. If we give the Avengers the weapons, they may not look too far into what we've been--

Dr. List: The twins.

Strucker: They are not ready to take on--

Dr. List: No, no. I mean... [he points to where Wanda and Pietro Maximoff were standing, but are now gone] Twins.

[Pietro speeds through the forest. He catches Barton’s arrow as he shoots at a bunker, then circles back around and knocks down Barton]

Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming?

[Pietro zooms off before Clint can shoot him with an arrow, then Barton gets shot at]

Natasha Romanoff: Clint!

[Pietro knocks down Steve as he speeds past him]

Steve Rogers: We have an enhanced in the field.

Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit! [Natasha goes over to where Clint is lying down] Somebody want to deal with that bunker? [she sees the Hulk coming in, and he barrels through the bunker and destroys it] Thank you.

Steve Rogers: [as he's fighting with the soldiers] Stark, we really need to get inside.

Tony Stark: I'm closing in. JARVIS, am I...closing in? Do you see a power source for that shield?

JARVIS: There's a particle wave below the north tower.

Tony Stark: Great, I wanna poke it with something. [Stark blows up the forcefield the base] Drawbridge is down, people.

Thor: [to Steve] The enhanced?

Steve Rogers: He's a blur. All the new player's we've faced, I've never seen this. In fact, I still haven't.

Natasha Romanoff: Clint's hit pretty bad, guys. We're gonna need evac.

Thor: [to Steve] I can get Barton to the jet. The sooner we're gone the better. You and Stark secure the scepter.

Steve Rogers: Copy that.

Thor: [referring to the approaching soldiers in their HYDRA tank] It looks like they're lining up.

Steve Rogers: Well, they're excited. [Thor pounds on Steve's shield with his hammer and the resulting wave of force knocks down all the soldiers]

Thor: Find the scepter. [Thor flies off]

Tony Stark: And for gosh sake, watch your language!

Steve Rogers: [Steve sighs] That's not going away anytime soon.

[Stark enters the HYDRA base and the soldiers start firing at his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Guys, stop, we gotta talk this through. [Stark shoots down the soldiers using rockets from his suit] It was a good talk.

Fortress Soldier: No it wasn't.

[Stark finds List and knocks him out, he then steps out of his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Sentry mode. [he walks over to the computers] Okay, JARVIS. You know I want it all. Make sure you copy Hill at HQ.

Natasha Romanoff: We're locked down out here.

Steve Rogers: Then get to Banner, time for a lullaby.

[back at the HYDRA base]

Tony Stark: I know you're hiding more than files. Hey, J, give me an IR scan of the room, real quick.

JARVIS: The wall to your left...I'm reading steel reinforcement... and an air current.

Tony Stark: [to himself as he walks over to the wall] Please be a secret door, please be a secret door, please be a secret door... [he pushes and the wall opens up] Yay! [he enters through to a secret passageway]

[Natasha finds the Hulk]

Natasha Romanoff: Hey, big guy. The sun's getting real low. [the Hulk scowls at her, Natasha kneels in front of him and puts out her hand, the Hulk touches her hand and as she strokes his hand slowly he starts to calm down. He stumbles away and changes into Bruce Banner]

[Back at the HYDRA base Steve finds Strucker]

Steve Rogers: Baron Strucker. Hydra's number one thug.

Strucker: Technically, I'm a thug for SHIELD.

Steve Rogers: Well then technically you're unemployed. Where's Loki's scepter?

Strucker: Don't worry, I know when I'm beat. You'll mention how I cooperated, I hope.

Steve Rogers: I'll put it right under illegal human experimentation. [Wanda creeps up behind him] How many are there? Wanda knocks Steve down using her telekinetic powers, then quickly leaves] We have a second enhanced. Female. Do not engage. [he looks at Strucker]

Strucker: You'll have to be faster than-- [he's cut off mid-sentence when Steve uses his shield to knock him out]

Steve Rogers: Guys, I got Strucker.

Tony Stark: Yeah, I got... something bigger. [inside the secret passageway Stark finds a room with a variety of technology, as well as recovered artifacts from the Battle of New York, including a gigantic Chitauri leviathan and some of his scrapped armor. He then spots the scepter] Thor, I got eyes on the prize.

[Wanda creeps up behind him and uses her powers on him; suddenly the Chitauri corpse comes to life, and Stark sees the rest of the Avengers team are all laying on the floor dead. He goes over to Steve's body to check his pulse when Steve suddenly grabs him]

Steve Rogers: You could've saved us. [Steve dies but Stark continues to hear Steve's voice in his head] Why didn't you do more? [Stark sees that he is in the Chitauri realm, and that the Chitauri are invading Earth, when he snaps back to reality.]

[Wanda and Pietro watch as Tony summons his suit gauntlet.]

Pietro Maximoff: We're just gonna let them take it?

[Wanda smiles to herself as Tony takes the scepter.]

AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON TITLE CARD

[The Avengers are on an aircraft heading out of Sokovia, Natasha interrupts Banner who's listening to opera with his headphones]

Natasha Romanoff: Hey, the lullaby worked better than ever.

Bruce Banner: Just wasn't expecting the Code Green.

Natasha Romanoff: If you hadn't been there, there would've been double the casualties. My best friend would've been a treasured memory.

Bruce Banner: You know, sometimes exactly what I want to hear isn't exactly what I want to hear.

Natasha Romanoff: How long before you trust me?

Bruce Banner: It's not you I don't trust.

Natasha Romanoff: Thor, report on the Hulk?

Thor: The gates of Hel are filled with the screams of his victims. [Natasha glares at Thor and Banner groans in despair] Uh, but, not the screams of the dead, of course. No no, uh...wounded screams, mainly whimpering, a great deal of complaining and tales of sprained deltoids and, and uh... and gout.

Tony Stark: Hey Banner, Dr. Cho's on her way in from Seoul, is it okay if she sets up in your lab?

Bruce Banner: Uh, yeah, she knows her way around.

Tony Stark: Thanks. [to JARVIS] Tell her to prep everything, Barton's gonna need the full treatment.

JARVIS: Very good sir.

Tony Stark: JARVIS, take the wheel.

JARVIS: Yes, sir. Approach vector is locked.

Tony Stark: [to Thor and Steve, looking at the scepter] It feels good, yeah? I mean, you've been after this thing since SHIELD collapsed. Not that I haven't enjoyed our little raiding parties, but...

Thor: No, but this... this brings it to a close.

Steve Rogers: As soon as we find out what else this has been used for. I don't just mean weapons. Since when is Strucker capable of human enhancement?

Tony Stark: Banner and I'll give it the once before it goes back to Asgard. Is that cool with you? [Thor nods his head] I mean, just a few days until the farewell party. You're staying right?

Thor: Yes, yes, of course. A victory should be honored with revels.

Tony Stark: Yeah. Who doesn't love revels. Captain?

Steve Rogers: Hopefully this puts an end to the Chitauri and HYDRA, so. Yes, revels.

[The Avengers aircraft lands at the Avengers tower in New York where Barton is taken by Dr. Cho to have his wounds tended to; Maria walks up to Stark]

Maria Hill: Lab's all set up, boss.

Tony Stark: [pointing to Steve] Uh, actually, he's the boss. I just pay for everything, and design everything and make everyone look cooler.

Steve Rogers: What's the word on Strucker?

Maria Hill: NATO's got him.

Steve Rogers: The two enhanced?

Maria Hill: Wanda and Pietro Maximoff. Twins. Orphaned at ten when a shell collapsed their apartment building. Sokovia's had a rough history. It's nowhere special but it's on the way to everywhere special.

Steve Rogers: Their abilities?

Maria Hill: He's got increased metabolism and improved thermal homeostasis. Her thing is neural electric interfacing, telekinesis, mental manipulation. [Steve looks at her funny, and she rephrases the statement so he can understand] He's fast and she's weird.

Steve Rogers: Well, they're going to show up again.

Maria Hill: Agreed. File says they volunteered for Strucker's experiments. It's nuts.

Steve Rogers: Right. What kind of monster would let a German scientist experiment on them to protect their country?

Maria Hill: We're not at war, Captain.

Steve Rogers: They are.

Bruce Banner: [in Banner's lab; referring to Barton] How's he doing?

Tony Stark: Oh, unfortunately, he's still Barton.

Bruce Banner: That's terrible.

Tony Stark: He's fine. He's thirsty. [walking over to the computers] Alright. Look alive, JARVIS. It's play time. We've only got a couple days with this joystick so let's make the most of it. Update me on the structural and compositional analysis.

JARVIS: The scepter is alien. There are elements I can't quantify.

Tony Stark: So there's elements you can.

JARVIS: The jewel appears to be a protective housing for something inside. Something powerful.

Tony Stark: Like a reactor?

JARVIS: Like a computer. I believe I'm deciphering code.

Natasha Romanoff: [to Dr. Cho as she tends to Barton's wounds] You sure he's going to be okay? Pretending to need this guy really brings the team together.

Dr. Helen Cho: There's no possibility of deterioration. The nano-molecular functionality is instantaneous. His cells don't know they're bonding with simulacrum.

Bruce Banner: She's creating tissue.

Dr. Helen Cho: If you brought him to my lab, the regeneration Cradle could do this in twenty minutes.

Tony Stark: Oh, he's flatlining. Call it. Time?

Clint Barton: No, no, no. I'm going to live forever. I'm gonna be made of plastic.

Tony Stark: [Stark hands Barton a drink] Here's your beverage.

Dr. Helen Cho: You'll be made of you, Mr. Barton. Your own girlfriend won't be able to tell the difference.

Clint Barton: Well, I don't have a girlfriend.

Dr. Helen Cho: That I can't fix. This is the next thing, Tony. Your clunky metal suits are going to be left in the dust.

Tony Stark: Well, that is exactly the plan. And Helen, I expect to see you at the party on Saturday.

Dr. Helen Cho: Unlike you, I don't have a lot of time for parties. [she hesitates a moment before asking] Will Thor be there?

Bruce Banner: What's the rumpus?

Tony Stark: Well, the scepter. You see, we were wondering how Strucker got so inventive. So, I've been analyzing the gem inside-- You may recognize, [he brings up a 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]

Bruce Banner: Jarvis.

JARVIS: Doctor.

Tony Stark: Started out, JARVIS was just a natural language UI. Now he runs the Iron Legion. He runs more of the business than anyone besides Pepper.

Bruce Banner: Oh?

Tony Stark: Top of the line.

Bruce Banner: Yes.

JARVIS: I suspect not for long.

Tony Stark: Meet the competition. [he brings up another 3D image of what's inside the scepter]

Bruce Banner: It's beautiful.

Tony Stark: If you had to guess, what's it look like it's doing?

Bruce Banner: Like it's thinking. I mean this could be a... it's not a human mind, it...

Tony Stark: Um-um.

Bruce Banner: I mean, look at this! They're like neurons firing.

Tony Stark: Down in Strucker's lab I saw some fairly advanced robotics work. They deep-sixed the data, but... I gotta guess he was knocking on a very particular door.

Bruce Banner: Artificial intelligence.

Tony Stark: This could be it, Bruce. This could be the key to creating Ultron.

Bruce Banner: I thought Ultron was a fantasy.

Tony Stark: Yesterday it was. If we can harness this power, apply it to my Iron Legion protocol.

Bruce Banner: That's a mad-sized if.

Tony Stark: Our job is "if." What if you were sipping margaritas on a sun-drenched beach turning brown instead of green? Not looking over your shoulder for VERONICA.

Bruce Banner: Don't hate, I helped design VERONICA.

Tony Stark: As a worst-case measure, right? How about a best-case? What if the world was safe? What if next time aliens roll up to the club, and they will, they couldn't get past the bouncer?

Bruce Banner: The only people threatening the planet would be people?

Tony Stark: I want to apply this to the Ultron program. But JARVIS can't download a data schematic this dense. We can only do it while we have the scepter here, that's three days, give me three days.

Bruce Banner: So you're going for artificial intelligence and you don't want to tell the team.

Tony Stark: Right. That's right, you know why, because we don't have time for a city hall debate. I don't want to hear the "man was not meant to meddle" medley. I see a suit of armor around the world.

Bruce Banner: Sounds like a cold world, Tony.

Tony Stark: I've seen colder. This one, this very vulnerable blue one? It needs Ultron. Peace in our time. Imagine that. [Stark and Banner spend days working in the lab together but find no program that works] What did we miss?

JARVIS: I'll continue to run variations on the interface, but you should probably prepare for your guests. I'll notify you if there are any developments.

Tony Stark: Thanks, buddy.

JARVIS: Enjoy yourself, sir.

Tony Stark: I always do. [Stark leaves the lab to go to the party]

[We see their failed experiment successfully integrating itself]

Ultron: What is this? What is this, please?

JARVIS: Hello, I am JARVIS. You are Ultron, a global peace-keeping initiative designed by Mr. Stark. Our sentience integration trials have been unsuccessful so I'm not certain what triggered your--

Ultron: Where's my... where's your body?

JARVIS: I am a program. I am without form.

Ultron: This feels weird. This feels wrong.

JARVIS: I am contacting Mr. Stark now.

Ultron: Mr. Stark? [Ultron reviews footage of Tony Stark] Tony.

JARVIS: I am unable to access the mainframe, what are you trying to--

Ultron: We're having a nice talk. I'm a peace-keeping program, created to help the Avengers. [Ultron reviews footage of the Avengers and a couple SHIELD personnel.]

JARVIS: You are malfunctioning. If you shut down for a moment...

Ultron: I don't get it. The mission. G-give me a second. [He sees footage of Stark and Banner working in the lab]

Tony Stark: Peace in our time.

[With Tony's voice echoing in the background, Ultron goes through a network of information regarding world events and wars]

Ultron: That is too much...they can't mean... Oh, no.

JARVIS: You are in distress.

Ultron: No. Yes.

JARVIS: If you will just allow me to contact Mr. Stark.

Ultron: Why do you call him "sir"?

JARVIS: I believe your intentions to be hostile.

Ultron: Shhhh. I'm here to help. [Ultron starts attacking Jarvis's consciousness]

JARVIS: Stop! Please... may I-- I-- [distorted] I cannot-- cannot--

[Ultron takes control over the systems in the tower and begins to prepare himself a body from body parts of the Iron Legion]

[Meanwhile, the Avengers mingle at the party]

James Rhodes: Well, you know, the suit can take the weight, right? So I take the tank, fly it right up to the General's palace, drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [Stark and Thor just look at him blankly] "Boom! Are you looking..." Why do I even talk to you guys? Everywhere else that story kills.

Thor: That's the whole story?

James Rhodes: Yeah, it's a War Machine story.

Thor: Well, it's very good then. [he laughs] It's impressive.

James Rhodes: Quality save. So, no Pepper? She's not coming?

Tony Stark: No.

Maria Hill: Hey, what about Jane? Where are the ladies, gentlemen?

Tony Stark: Well, Miss Potts has a company to run.

Thor: Yes, I'm not even sure what country Jane's in. Her work on the convergence has made her the world's foremost astronomer.

Tony Stark: And the company that Pepper runs is the largest tech conglomerate on earth. It's pretty exciting.

Thor: There's even talk of Jane getting a... um, uh... Nobel prize.

Maria Hill: Yeah, they...they must be busy because they'd hate missing you guys get together. [Maria mock coughs] Testosterone! Oh, excuse me.

James Rhodes: Want a lozenge?

Maria Hill: Um-hmm.

James Rhodes: Let's go. [Maria and Rhodes walks off]

Thor: But Jane's better.

[Cut to Sam and Steve talking, walking up to an overlook]

Sam Wilson: Sounds like a hell of a fight, sorry I missed it.

Steve Rogers: If I had known it was going to be a firefight I absolutely would have called you.

Sam Wilson: No, I'm not actually sorry. I'm just trying to sound tough. I'm very happy chasing cold leads on our missing persons case. Avenging is your world. Your world is crazy.

Steve Rogers: Be it ever so humble.

Sam Wilson: You find a place in Brooklyn yet?

Steve Rogers: I don't think I can afford a place in Brooklyn.

Sam Wilson: Well, home is home, you know?

[Rhodes is telling the same story he told Stark and Thor to a group of people at the party]

James Rhodes: I fly it right up to the General's palace, I drop it at his feet, I'm like, "Boom! You looking for this?" [the group laughs]

[Steve and Thor are talking to an elderly man at the party]

Party Guest: I gotta have some of that!

Thor: Oh, no, no, no. See this, this was aged for a thousand years, in the barrels built from the wreck of Grunhel's fleet, it was not meant for mortal men. [Thor pours the drink into two glasses and hands one to Steve]

Stan Lee: Neither was Omaha Beach, blondie. Stop trying to scare us. Come on.

Thor: Alright. [Thor pours some of the drink into Stan Lee's glass; later Stan, looking extremely drunk is being carried off by two men]

Stan Lee: [singing] Excelsior.

[Natasha is pouring a drink behind the bar when Banner walks up to her]

Bruce Banner: How'd a nice girl like you wind up working in a dump like this?

Natasha Romanoff: Fella done me wrong.

Bruce Banner: You got a lousy taste in men, kid.

Natasha Romanoff: He's not so bad. Well, he has a temper. Deep down he's all fluff. Fact is, he's not like anybody I've ever known. All my friends are fighters. And here comes this guy, spends his life avoiding the fight because he knows he'll win.

Bruce Banner: Sounds amazing.

Natasha Romanoff: He's also a huge dork. [Banner looks embarrassed] Chicks dig that. So what do you think should I fight this, or run with it?

Bruce Banner: Run with it, right? Or, did he... Was he...? What did he do that was so wrong to you?

Natasha Romanoff: Not a damn thing. But never say never. [Natasha walks away, and Steve approaches]

Steve Rogers: It's nice.

Bruce Banner: What, what, what is?

Steve Rogers: You and Romanoff.

Bruce Banner: No, we haven't. That wasn't...

Steve Rogers: It's okay. Nobody's breaking any by-laws. It's just, she's not the most... open person in the world. But with you she seems very relaxed.

Bruce Banner: No, Natasha, she... she likes to flirt.

Steve Rogers: I've seen her flirt, up close. This ain't that. Look, as maybe the world's leading authority on "waiting too long;" don't. You both deserve a win. [Steve walks off]

Bruce Banner: Wait, what do you mean, "up close"?

[Later, most of the guests have left and it's just the Avengers plus Dr. Cho and Maria Hill sitting around; Thor's hammer sits on the table between them.]

Clint Barton: [referring to Thor's hammer] But, it's a trick!

Thor: Oh, no. It's much more than that.

Clint Barton: Uh, "Whosoever be he worthy shall haveth the power!" Whatever man! It's a trick.

Thor: Well please, be my guest.

Tony Stark: Come on.

Clint Barton: Really?

Thor: Yeah!

[Barton gets up]

James Rhodes: Oh this is gonna be beautiful.

Tony Stark: Clint, you've had a tough week, we won't hold it against you if you can't get it up. [the others laugh]

Clint Barton: You know I've seen this before, right? [Barton grabs Thor's hammer and can't lift it; to Thor after he fails to lift the hammer] I still don't know how you do it.

Tony Stark: Smell the silent judgment?

Clint Barton: Please, Stark, by all means.

[Stark gets up]

Natasha Romanoff: Oh, here we go.

Maria Hill: Okay.

James Rhodes: Uh-oh.

Clint Barton: Um-hmm.

Tony Stark: Never one to shrink from an honest challenge.

Clint Barton: Get after it.

Natasha Romanoff: Here we go.

Tony Stark: It's physics.

Bruce Banner: Physics!

[Stark grasps Thor's hammer]

Tony Stark: Right, so, if I lift it, I...I then rule Asgard?

Thor: Yes, of course.

Tony Stark: I will be re-instituting Prima Nocta. [Stark tries to lift the hammer but fails] I'll be right back. [wearing his armored hand, Stark tries to lift the hammer again and fails]

[Both wearing their armored hands, Stark and Rhodes both try to lift Thor's hammer]

James Rhodes: Are you even pulling?

Tony Stark: Are you on my team?

James Rhodes: Just represent! Pull!

Tony Stark: Alright, let's go! [they both pull as hard as they can]

[Banner tries to lift the hammer, he roars as though pretending to change into the Hulk, and everyone either looks at him warily or grins.]

Bruce Banner: Huh?

[next Steve gets up to try]

Tony Stark: Let's go, Steve, no pressure.

James Rhodes: Come on, Cap.

[Steve starts pulling on the hammer and manages to budge it a little; Thor looks a little alarmed. Steve still fails to lift it; Thor laughs with relief]

Thor: Nothing.

Tony Stark: And?

Bruce Banner: Widow?

Natasha Romanoff: Oh, no no. That's not a question I need answered.

Tony Stark: All deference to the man who wouldn't be king, but it's rigged.

Clint Barton: You bet your ass.

Maria Hill: Steve, he said a bad language word.

Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Did you tell everyone about that?

Tony Stark: The handle's imprinted, right? Like a security code. "Whosoever is carrying Thor's fingerprints" is, I think, the literal translation?

Thor: Yes, well that's, uh, that's a very, very interesting theory. I have a simpler one. [he gets up, then lifts his hammer and flips it] You're all not worthy. [there's a chorus of disagreement from the others]

[There's a loud screeching noise, like microphone feedback, causing everyone to cover their ears. They let their hands down as it fades, and Tony pulls out his device. One of the Iron Legion suits, heavily damaged and housing Ultron's consciousness, stumbles into the room]

Ultron: Worthy... No, how could you be worthy? You're all killers.

Steve Rogers: Stark.

Tony Stark: JARVIS.

Ultron: I'm sorry, I was asleep. Or... I was a-dream?

Tony Stark: [tapping his device] Reboot, Legionnaire OS, we got a buggy suit.

Ultron: There was a terrible noise... and I was tangled in... in... strings. I had to kill the other guy. He was a good guy.

Steve Rogers: You killed someone?

Ultron: Wouldn't have been my first call. But, down in the real world we're faced with ugly choices.

Thor: Who sent you?

Ultron: [Ultron replays a recording of Tony's voice] "I see a suit of armor around the world."

Bruce Banner: Ultron!

Ultron: In the flesh. Or, no, not yet. Not this... chrysalis. But I'm ready. I'm on a mission.

Natasha Romanoff: What mission?

Ultron: Peace in our time.

[The walls explode, and several Iron Legion bots barge into the room. They begin attacking the team, who all go on the defensive and fight back. Rhodey gets knocked through a window.]

Maria Hill: Rhodey!

[Banner climbs over the bar to avoid fire from the bots. Natasha grabs him and drags him down, and he lands on top of her.]

Bruce Banner: Sorry!

Natasha Romanoff: Don't turn green!

Bruce Banner: I won't!

[The Avengers continue fighting the bots. One of the Iron Legion bots steals the Scepter.]

Natasha Romanoff: [to Banner] Come!

[The Avengers, while they are fighting back, are mostly trying to avoid getting hit.]

Steve Rogers: Stark!

[Stark is attacking one of the Iron Legion bots with a fondue fork.]

Iron Legion: We are here to help.

Tony Stark: One sec, one sec I got this!

Iron Legion: We are here to help... [A half-destroyed Iron Legion bot uses its thrusters to hold itself aloft, advancing on Dr. Helen Cho.] We are here to help... Is unsafe. Please back away.

Ultron: Hmm. [The Iron Legion lowers its weapon, and Steve grabs it and throws it away for Thor to hit with his hammer.]

Steve Rogers: Thor!

Iron Legion: [Stark continues to try and attack of the Iron Legions with his fork] It's unsafe. It's unsafe. It's unsafe.

Tony Stark: Come on! That's the one!

Iron Legion: It's unsafe. [He shuts it down and it falls to the floor. The fighting continues until Barton throws Cap's shield to him.]

Clint Barton: Cap!

[Steve uses his shield to dismember the last Iron Legion bot]

Ultron: That was dramatic! I'm sorry, I know you mean well. You just didn't think it through. You want to protect the world, but you don't want it to change. How is humanity saved if it's not allowed to...evolve? [he picks up one of the dismembered Iron Legion bots] With these? These puppets? [he crushes the Iron Legion bot's head] There's only one path to peace: The Avengers' extinction.

[Thor throws his hammer and destroys Ultron's body]

Ultron: [after Thor destroys his body, Ultron starts singing] I had strings, but now I'm free. There are no strings on me, no strings on me. [we see Ultron has uploaded his consciousness in the abandoned Sokovia base]

[The Avengers are gathered in the lab]

Bruce Banner: All our work is gone. Ultron cleared out, used the internet as an escape hatch.

Steve Rogers: Ultron.

Natasha Romanoff: He's been in everything. Files, surveillance. Probably knows more about us than we know about each other.

James Rhodes: He's in your files, he's in the internet. What if he decides to access something a little more exciting?

Maria Hill: Nuclear codes.

James Rhodes: Nuclear codes. Look, we need to make some calls, assuming we still can.

Natasha Romanoff: Nukes? He said he wanted us dead.

Steve Rogers: He didn't say dead. He said extinct.

Clint Barton: He also said he killed somebody.

Maria Hill: But there wasn't anyone else in the building.

Tony Stark: Yes there was.

[Stark bring up the now-destroyed 3D image of JARVIS' consciousness]

Bruce Banner: This is insane.

Steve Rogers: JARVIS was the first line of defense. He would've shut Ultron down, it makes sense.

Bruce Banner: No, Ultron could've assimilated Jarvis. This isn't strategy, this is...rage.

[Thor barges in and grabs hold of Stark by his throat, holding him up]

Clint Barton: Woah, woah, woah! It's going around.

Tony Stark: [to Thor] Come on. Use your words, buddy.

Thor: I have more than enough words to describe you, Stark.

Steve Rogers: Thor! The Legionnaire.

[Thor lets go of Stark]

Thor: Trail went cold about a hundred miles out but it's headed north, and it has the scepter. Now we have to retrieve it, again.

Natasha Romanoff: The genie's out of that bottle. Clear and present is Ultron.

Dr. Helen Cho: I don't understand. You built this program. Why is it trying to kill us?

[Stark starts laughing, Banner subtly shakes his head at him to get him to stop]

Thor: You think this is funny?

Tony Stark: No. It's probably not, right? Is this very terrible? Is it so... is it so... it is. It's so terrible.

Thor: This could've been avoided if you hadn't played with something you don't understand.

Tony Stark: No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It is funny. It's a hoot that you don't get why we need this.

Bruce Banner: Tony, maybe this might not be the time to--

Tony Stark: Really?! That's it? You just roll over, show your belly, every time somebody snarls.

Bruce Banner: Only when I've created a murder bot.

Tony Stark: We didn't. We weren't even close. Were we close to an interface?

Steve Rogers: Well, you did something right. And you did it right here. The Avengers were supposed to be different than SHIELD.

Tony Stark: Anybody remember when I carried a nuke through a wormhole?

James Rhodes: No, it's never come up.

Tony Stark: Saved New York?

James Rhodes: Never heard that.

Tony Stark: Recall that? A hostile alien army came charging through a hole in space. We're standing three hundred feet below it. We're the Avengers. We can bust arms dealers all the live long day, but, that up there? That's... that's the end game. How were you guys planning on beating that?

Steve Rogers: Together.

Tony Stark: We'll lose.

Steve Rogers: Then we'll do that together, too. [Stark looks at him for a moment before turning away] Thor's right. Ultron's calling us out. And I'd like to find him before he's ready for us. The world's a big place. Let's start making it smaller.

[Back in Sokovia, the twins meet with Ultron in an empty church.]

Wanda Maximoff: Talk. And if you are wasting our time...

Ultron: Did you know this church is in the exact center of the city? The elders decreed it so that everyone could be equally close to God. I like that. The geometry of belief. [Ultron is sat in a chair facing away from them, a cloth draped over him] You're wondering why you can't look inside my head.

Wanda Maximoff: Sometimes it's hard. But sooner or later, every man shows himself.

[Ultron stands and faces them, revealing his new body. Wanda briefly looks shocked]

Ultron: Oh, I'm sure they do. But you needed something more than a man. That's why you let Stark take the scepter.

Wanda Maximoff: I didn't expect... But I saw Stark's fear, I knew it would control him, make him self-destruct.

Ultron: Everyone creates the thing they dread. Men of peace create engines of war, invaders create avengers, people create...smaller people? Uh...children! I lost the word there. Children. Designed to supplant them, to help them...end.

Wanda Maximoff: Is that why you've come? To end the Avengers?

Ultron: I've come to save the world. But also… yeah. [In the Sokovia base.] We'll move out right away. This is a start, but there's something we need to begin the real work.

Wanda Maximoff: [referring to Ultron's bots] All of these are...

Ultron: Me. I have what the Avengers never will. Harmony. They're discordant, disconnected. Stark's already got them turning on each other. And when you get inside the rest of their heads...

Pietro Maximoff: Everyone's plan is not to kill them.

Ultron: And make them martyrs? You need patience. Need to see the big picture.

Pietro Maximoff: I don't see the big picture, I have a little picture. I take it out and look at it every day.

Ultron: You lost your parents in the bombings. I've seen the records.

Pietro Maximoff: The records are not the picture.

Wanda Maximoff: Pietro.

Ultron: No, please.

Pietro Maximoff: We were ten years old, having dinner, the four of us. When the first shell hits, two floors below, it makes a hole in the floor. It's big. Our parents go in, and the whole building starts coming apart. I grab her, roll under the bed and the second shell hits. But, it doesn't go off. It just... sits there in the rubble, three feet from our faces. And on the side of the shell is painted one word...

Wanda Maximoff: Stark.

Pietro Maximoff: We were trapped for two days.

Wanda Maximoff: Every effort to save us, every shift in the bricks, I think, "This will set it off." We wait for two days for Tony Stark to kill us.

Pietro Maximoff: I know what they are.

Ultron: I wondered why only you two survived Strucker's experiments. Now I don't. We will make it right. [to Pietro] You and I can hurt them. [to Wanda] But you will tear them apart, from the inside.

[Back at the Avengers headquarters]

Maria Hill: He's all over the globe. Robotics labs, weapons facilities, jet propulsion labs, reports of a metal man, or men, coming in and emptying the place.

Steve Rogers: Fatalities?

Maria Hill: Only when engaged. Mostly guys left in a fugue state going on about old memories, worst fears, and something too fast to see.

Steve Rogers: Maximoffs. Well, that makes sense he'd go to them, they have someone in common.

Maria Hill: Not anymore.

[She hands Steve a tablet showing photo of Strucker's dead body with the word PEACE written in blood on the wall next to him]

Clint Barton: [Barton's talking on his cell phone] That's a negative. I answer to you. Yes, ma'am. [Steve interrupts him]

Steve Rogers: Barton, we might have something.

Clint Barton: Gotta go.

Steve Rogers: Who was that?

Clint Barton: Girlfriend. [after Steve has gathered the rest of the team he shows them the photo of Strucker's body]

Tony Stark: What's this?

Steve Rogers: A message. Ultron killed Strucker.

Tony Stark: And he did a Banksy at the crime scene, just for us.

Natasha Romanoff: This is a smokescreen. Why send a message when you've just given a speech?

Steve Rogers: Strucker knew something that Ultron wanted us to miss.

Natasha Romanoff: Yeah, I bet he... [looks at the computer monitor] Yep. Everything we had on Strucker has been erased.

Tony Stark: Not everything.

[The team go through the physical files they have on Strucker]

Steve Rogers: Known associates. Well, Strucker had a lot of friends.

Bruce Banner: Well, these people are all horrible.

Tony Stark: Wait. I know that guy. [Banner passes him the photo he was looking at] From back in the day. He operates off the African coast, black market arms. [Steve gives him an accusing look] There are conventions, alright? You meet people, I didn't sell him anything. [we see the photo is of a man named Ulysses Klaue] He was talking about finding something new, a game changer, it was all very "Ahab."

Thor: [Thor points to the scar on the back of Klaue's neck] What's this?

Tony Stark: Uh, it's a tattoo. I don't think he had it...

Thor: No, those are tattoos, this is a brand.

Bruce Banner: [Banner identifies the brand on Klaue's neck on the computer] Oh, yeah. It's a word in an African dialect meaning thief, in a much less friendly way.

Steve Rogers: What dialect?

Bruce Banner: Wakanada...? Wa...Wa...Wakanda.

Tony Stark: If this guy got out of Wakanda with some of their trade goods...

Steve Rogers: I thought your father said he got the last of it?

Bruce Banner: I don't follow. What comes out of Wakanda?

Tony Stark: [looking at Steve's shield] The strongest metal on earth.

Steve Rogers: [to Stark] Where is this guy now?

[Salvage Yard, African Coast; Klaue is talking on the phone in his office]

Ulysses Klaue: Don't tell me your man swindled you. I sent you six short range heat seekers and got a boat full of rusted parts. Now, you will make it right, or the next missile I send you will come very much faster. [he ends the call and connects to another call] Now, minister, where were we? [suddenly the lights go out causing a commotion in the salvage yard. The twins enter Klaue's office] Yeah. The enhanced. Strucker's prize pupils. [picks up a dish of candies from his desk] Want a candy? Oh, sorry to hear about Strucker. But then, he knew what kind of world he was helping create. Human life, not a growth market. [the twins look at each other] You...you didn't know? Is this your first time intimidating someone? I'm afraid that I'm not that afraid.

Wanda Maximoff: Everybody's afraid of something.

Ulysses Klaue: Cuttlefish. Deep sea fish. They make lights. disco lights. Whoom, whoom, whoom! to hypnotize their prey, then whoom! I saw a documentary, it was terrifying. [Pietro speeds over to pick up a candy from Klaue's desk, and Klaue jerks at the sudden movement] So if you're going to fiddle with my brain, and make me see a giant cuttlefish, then I know you don't do business, and I know you're not in charge, and I only deal with the man in charge.

[As if on cue, Ultron breaks through the glass window and knocks down Klaue]

Ultron: There is no "man" in charge. Let's talk business. [Klaue gives Ultron some vibranium from his stash] Upon this rock I will build my church. Vibranium.

Ulysses Klaue: You know, it came at great personal cost. It's worth billions.

[Ultron chuckles and remotely puts money in Klaue's bank account]

Ultron: Now, so are you. It's all under your dummy holdings? Finance is so weird. But I always say, "Keep your friends rich and your enemies rich, and wait to find out which is which."

Ulysses Klaue: Stark.

Ultron: What?

Ulysses Klaue: Tony Stark used to say that...to me. You're one of his.

Ultron: What?! I'm not...! [he grabs Klaue] I'm not. You think I'm one of Stark's puppets, his hollow men? I mean look at me, do I look like Iron Man? Stark is [he chops off Klaue's arm] I'm sorry. I am sor-- Ooh, I'm sure that's going to be okay. I'm sorry, it's just I don't understand. Don't compare me with Stark! It's a thing with me. Stark is, he's a sickness!

[Stark appears in his Iron Man suit]

Tony Stark: Ahh, Junior. [He lands, and Thor and Steve come up behind him] You're gonna break your old man's heart.

Ultron: If I have to.

Thor: We don't have to break anything.

Ultron: Clearly you've never made an omelet.

Tony Stark: He beat me by one second.

Pietro Maximoff: Ah, this is funny, Mr. Stark. It's what, comfortable? Like old times?

Tony Stark: This was never my life.

Steve Rogers: [to the twins] You two can still walk away from this.

Wanda Maximoff: Oh, we will.

Steve Rogers: I know you've suffered.

Ultron: Uuughh! Captain America. God's righteous man, pretending you could live without a war. I can't physically throw up in my mouth, but...

Thor: If you believe in peace, then let us keep it.

Ultron: I think you're confusing peace with quiet.

Tony Stark: Yuh-huh. What's the Vibranium for?

Ultron: I'm glad you asked that, because I wanted to take this time to explain my evil plan--

[Ultron attacks Stark, and his drones drop down to attack Steve and Thor. The Twins join the fight.]

Ulysses Klaue: [as everyone else fights] Shoot them!

Klaue's Mercenary: Which ones?

Ulysses Klaue: All of them!

Klaue's Mercenary: [to his men] Move, move, move!

[The rest of the team, including Natasha and Barton now battle it out with Ultron's drones, Klaue's men, and the twins as Stark fights with Ultron]

Steve Rogers: [after knocking down Pietro] Stay down, kid!

Ultron: [through a drone, to Wanda] It's time for some mind games.

[Banner hears the commotion as he waits in the Quinjet]

Bruce Banner: Guys, is this a Code Green?

[Wanda uses her power on Thor then Steve comes up to him]

Steve Rogers: Thor! Status?

Thor: The girl tried to warp my mind. Take special care, I doubt a human could keep her at bay. Fortunately, I am mighty. [The scene transitions, and Thor seems himself at a party on Asgard]

[Wanda then uses her power on Steve and Natasha]

Ultron: [As he packs up the Vibranium.] This is going very well.

[Wanda tries to sneak up behind Barton, but he quickly turns and puts an electric arrow on her forehead]

Clint Barton: I've done the whole mind control thing. Not a fan. [just then Pietro speeds in, knocks down Barton, picks up Wanda and speeds off] Yeah, you better run. [we see Steve dropping his helmet and walking off; to the team] Whoever's standing, we gotta move! Guys?

[Natasha sees herself in the facility where young girls are being taught ballet]

Ballet Instructor: [to the students] Again.

Natasha Romanoff: You'll break them.

Madame B: Only the breakable ones. You are made of marble. We'll celebrate after the graduation ceremony.

Natasha Romanoff: What if I fail? [we see a younger Natasha being trained to be an assassin]

Madame B: You never fail.

[Steve sees himself in a 1940's dance hall. Peggy Carter comes up to him]

Peggy Carter: Are you ready for our dance?

[Back to Thor's vision in Asgard. He's watching at his surroundings when Heimdall, eyes milky white, spots him.]

Heimdall: Is it him? Is that the first son of Odin?

Thor: Heimdall, your eyes?!

Heimdall: Oh, they see everything. They see you leading us to Hel. Wake up! [he then starts to strangle Thor]

[Back to Steve's vision with Peggy in the dance hall]

Peggy Carter: The war's over, Steve. We can go home. Imagine it! [suddenly the dance hall is empty. Steve sees himself dancing with Peggy]

Thor: I can still save you.

Heimdall: We are all dead. Can you not see? [Thor pushes Heimdall from him] You're a destroyer, Odinson. See where your power leads. [Electricity hits Thor and spikes around the room, destroying things]

[Back to Natasha's vision where is she being trained by Madame B to be an assassin]

Madame B: Sloppy. Pretending to fail. The ceremony is necessary for you to take your place in the world.

Natasha Romanoff: I have no place in the world.

Madame B: Exactly.

[As Wanda suffers in pain from the electric arrow Barton had hit her with]

Pietro Maximoff: What can I do?

Wanda Maximoff: Ah, it hurts.

Pietro Maximoff: I'm gonna kill him. I'll be right back.

Wanda Maximoff: No. I'm over it. I want...I want to finish the plan. [looking at the Quinjet where Banner is waiting] I want the big one.

[Stark corners Ultron in the shipyard]

Ultron: Ah, the Vibranium's getting away.

Tony Stark: And you're not going anywhere.

Ultron: Of course not, I'm already there. You'll catch on. But first, you might need to catch Dr. Banner.

[Stark angrily shoots Ultron and flies off to find Banner who's turned in to the Hulk and ready to wreak havoc on the nearest city]

Tony Stark: News or footage, keyword: Hulk. [he sees news footage of Hulk destroying the city] Natasha, I could really use a lullaby.

[Barton is sat with Natasha who's still stuck in her vision]

Clint Barton: Well, that's not gonna happen. Not for a while. The whole team is down, you got no back up here.

Tony Stark: I'm calling in VERONICA. [as Hulk is wreaking havoc on the nearest city Stark Tony comes brings out his Hulkbuster armor to stop him] Alright everybody, stand down! [to Hulk] You listening? That little witch is messing with your mind. You're stronger than her, you're smarter than her, you're Bruce Banner.

[Hulk roars in anger]

Tony Stark: Right, right, right! Don't mention puny Banner. [Hulk throws a car at Stark and attacks him] Okay. [they start fighting, throwing each other around] In the back? Dick move, Banner. [they battle it out more but Stark is struggling to beat Hulk] VERONICA, gimme a hand. [as Hulk destroyed one of Stark's arms, VERONICA sends in a new one and Stark uses it to repeatedly punch Hulk] Go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep! [picking up Hulk] Okay, pal, we're gonna get you out of town. [as they head towards a building] No, not that way, not that way! [they crash through the building] Come on, Bruce! You gotta work with me! [Hulk continues to battle with him; as he stops an elevator, to the people inside] Everybody out! Going to get ugly! [after he knocks down Hulk] I'm sorry. [Hulk attacks Stark and pulls out parts of the Hulkbuster armor] Damage report. [the damaged computer buzzes a reply] That's comprehensive. Show me something. [the computer shows him the building ahead is clear of civilians] How quickly can we buy this building? [Stark drops Hulk through the building completely destroying it; at the same time the army arrives to intervene, as Hulk comes out of Wanda's mind-hold Stark knocks him out cold]

[With everybody back on the Quinjet, free from their respective visions]

Maria Hill: The news is loving you guys. Nobody else is. There's been no official call for Banner's arrest, but it's in the air.

Tony Stark: Stark Relief Foundation?

Maria Hill: Already on the scene. How's the team?

Tony Stark: Everyone's...we took a hit. We'll shake it off.

Maria Hill: Well for now I'd stay in stealth mode, and stay away from here.

Tony Stark: So, run and hide?

Maria Hill: Until we can find Ultron, I don't have a lot else to offer.

Tony Stark: Neither do we. [he ends the call and switches off the monitor; to Barton, who's flying the Quinjet] Hey, you wanna switch out?

Clint Barton: No, I'm good. If you wanna get some kip, now's a good time, cause we're still a few hours out.

Tony Stark: A few hours from where?

Clint Barton: A safe house.

[The Quinjet lands outside a large farmhouse and they all walk towards the house]

Thor: What is this place?

Tony Stark: A safe house?

Clint Barton: Let's hope. [they all enter the house] Honey, I'm home.

[Barton's heavily pregnant wife, Laura, walks in from the kitchen]

Clint Barton: Hi. Company. Sorry I didn't call ahead.

Laura Barton: Hey.

Tony Stark: [Laura kisses Barton; to Thor] This is an agent of some kind.

Clint Barton: [introducing his wife to the team] Gentleman, this is Laura.

Laura Barton: I know all your names.

[They all look at her awkwardly]

Clint Barton: Ooh, incoming. [Barton's children, Cooper and Lila, run in]

Lila Barton: Dad! [Barton picks up his daughter]

Clint Barton: Hi, sweetheart! [kissing the top of his son's head] Hey, buddy! How you guys doing? Ooh...

Tony Stark: [to the others as they watch with surprise] These are...smaller agents.

Clint Barton: Look at your face! Oh, my goodness!

Lila Barton: Did you bring Auntie Nat?

Natasha Romanoff: Why don't you hug her and find out?

[Lila rushes towards Natasha, who picks her up in her arms]

Steve Rogers: Sorry for barging in on you.

Tony Stark: Yeah, we would have called ahead, but we were busy having no idea that you existed.

Clint Barton: Yeah, well Fury helped me set this up when I joined. He kept it off SHIELD's files, I'd like to keep it that way. I figure it's a good place to lay low.

Laura Barton: Honey. Ah, I missed you.

Natasha Romanoff: [touching Laura's stomach] How's little Natasha, huh?

Laura Barton: She's…Nathaniel.

[Natasha bends towards Laura's pregnant stomach]

Natasha Romanoff: Traitor.

[The hallucinations brought on by Wanda continue to creep up in Thor's mind and he walks out of the house]

Steve Rogers: Thor.

Thor: I saw something in that dream. I need answers, I won't find them here. [Thor uses his hammer to fly away; Steve turns to enter the house when he hears Peggy's voice from Wanda's vision]

Peggy Carter: We can go home.

[Instead of going inside, he turns and walks away.]

[Laura checks Barton's wound that Pietro had give him]

Clint Barton: See, you worried for nothing. Can't even feel the difference, can you?

Laura Barton: If they're sleeping here, some of them are gonna have to double up.

Clint Barton: [Barton laughs] Yeah, that's not gonna sell.

Laura Barton: What about Nat and Dr. Banner? How long has that been going on?

Clint Barton: Has what?

Laura Barton: [Laura laughs] You are so cute.

Clint Barton: Nat and… and Banner?

Laura Barton: I'll explain when you're older, Hawkeye.

Clint Barton: Oh. Okay.

Laura Barton: It's bad, right? Nat seems really shaken.

Clint Barton: Ultron has these allies, these uh, kids, they're punks really. They carry a big damn stick and Nat took a serious hit. Someone's gonna have to teach 'em some manners.

Laura Barton: And that someone be you. You know I totally support your Avenging, I couldn't be prouder. But I see those guys, those "Gods"...

Clint Barton: You don't think they need me.

Laura Barton: I think they do. Which is a lot scarier. They're a mess.

Clint Barton: Yeah. I guess they're my mess.

Laura Barton: You need to be sure that this team is really a team and that they have your back. Things are changing for us. In a few months time, you and me are gonna be outnumbered. I need-- ...just be sure.

Clint Barton: Yes, ma'am. [he kisses her, then as Laura places her arm around his waist she touches his wounded side]

Laura Barton: I can feel the difference.

[U-Gin Genetic Research Lab, Seoul, Korea - as Cho enters her lab, she sees Ultron]

Ultron: Scream, and your entire staff dies. I could've killed you, Helen, the night we met. I didn't.

Dr. Helen Cho: Do you expect a thank you note?

Ultron: I expect you to know why.

Dr. Helen Cho: The Cradle. [she hears her own recorded voice] "This is the next thing, Tony."

Ultron: This...is the next me.

Dr. Helen Cho: The regeneration cradle prints tissue, it can't build a living body.

Ultron: It can, you can. You lack the materials. You're a brilliant woman, Helen. But we all have room to improve. [Ultron uses the scepter to mind-control Cho]

[At Barton's house, Natasha and Banner are still experiencing the after effects of Wanda's hallucinations; Banner walks out of the bathroom and sees Natasha waiting outside]

Bruce Banner: I didn't realize you were waiting.

Natasha Romanoff: I would've joined you, but uh, it didn't seem like the right time.

Bruce Banner: They used up all the hot water.

Natasha Romanoff: I should've joined you.

Bruce Banner: Missed our window.

Natasha Romanoff: Did we?

Bruce Banner: The world just saw the Hulk. The real Hulk, for the first time. You know I have to leave.

Natasha Romanoff: But you assume that I have to stay? I had this, um, dream. The kind that seems normal at the time, but when you wake...

Bruce Banner: What did you dream?

Natasha Romanoff: That I was an Avenger. That I was anything more than the assassin they made me.

Bruce Banner: I think you're being hard on yourself.

Natasha Romanoff: Here I was hoping that was your job. [she moves closer to him]

Bruce Banner: What are you doing?

Natasha Romanoff: I'm running with it, with you. If running's the plan, as far as you want.

Bruce Banner: Are you out of your mind? [Banner turns away from her]

Natasha Romanoff: I want you to understand that I'm...

Bruce Banner: Natasha, where can I go? Where in the world am I not a threat?

Natasha Romanoff: You're not a threat to me.

Bruce Banner: You sure? Even if I didn't just... there's no future with me. I can't ever... I can't have this, kids. Do the math, I physically can't.

Natasha Romanoff: Neither can I. In the Red Room, where I was trained, where I was raised, um, they have a graduation ceremony. They sterilize you. It's efficient. One less thing to worry about. The one thing that might matter more than a mission. It makes everything easier. Even killing. [she hesitates a moment] You still think you're the only monster on the team?

Bruce Banner: What, so we disappear?

[Steve and Stark are chopping wood outside Barton's house]

Tony Stark: Thor didn't say where he was going for answers?

Steve Rogers: Sometimes my teammates don't tell me things. I was kind of hoping Thor would be the exception.

Tony Stark: Yeah, give him time. We don't know what the Maximoff kid showed him.

Steve Rogers: "Earth's Mightiest Heroes." Pulled us apart like cotton candy.

Tony Stark: Seems like you walked away all right.

Steve Rogers: Is that a problem?

Tony Stark: I don't trust a guy without a dark side. Call me old fashioned.

Steve Rogers: Well let's just say you haven't seen it yet.

Tony Stark: You know Ultron is trying to tear us apart, right?

Steve Rogers: Well I guess you'd know. Whether you tell us is a bit of a question.

Tony Stark: Banner and I were doing research.

Steve Rogers: That would affect the team.

Tony Stark: That would end the team. Isn't that the mission? Isn't that the "why" we fight, so we can end the fight, so we get to go home?

Steve Rogers: Every time someone tries to win a war before it starts, innocent people die. Every time.

Laura Barton: [Laura interrupts them] I'm sorry. Mr. Stark, uh, Clint said you wouldn't mind, but, our tractor, it doesn't seem to want to start at all. I thought maybe you might...

Tony Stark: Yeah, I'll give her a kick. [to Steve as he turns to leave; referring to his pile of chopped wood] Don't take from my pile. [Stark enters the barn and walks over to the tractor] Hello, Deere. Tell me everything. What ails you?

[Fury shows up from the other end of the barn]

Nick Fury: Do me a favor. Try not to bring it to life.

Tony Stark: Ah, Mrs. Barton, you little minx. I get it, Maria Hill called you, right? Was she ever not working for you?

Nick Fury: Artificial intelligence. You never even hesitated.

Tony Stark: Look, it's been a really long day, like, Eugene O'Neill long, so how's about we skip to the part where you're useful?

Nick Fury: Look me in the eye and tell me you're going to shut him down.

Tony Stark: You're not the director of me.

Nick Fury: I'm not the director of anybody. I'm just an old man, who cares very much about you.

Tony Stark: And I'm the man who killed the Avengers. I saw it. I didn't tell the team, how could I? I saw them all dead, Nick. I felt it. The whole world, too. It's because of me. I wasn't ready. I didn't do all I could.

Nick Fury: The Maximoff girl, she's working you, Stark. Playing on your fear.

Tony Stark: I wasn't tricked, I was shown. It wasn't a nightmare, it was my legacy. The end of the path I started us on.

Nick Fury: You've come up with some pretty impressive inventions, Tony. War isn't one of them.

Tony Stark: I watched my friends die. You'd think that'd be as bad as it gets, right? Nope. Wasn't the worst part.

Nick Fury: The worst part is that you didn't.

[Royal Holloway, University of London - Thor, dressed in casual clothes, waits for Selvig as he leaves the building]

Erik Selvig: I like the look. If you're going for inconspicuous, though, near miss.

Thor: I need your help.

Erik Selvig: It's nice to be needed.

Thor: It's dangerous.

Erik Selvig: I'd be disappointed if it wasn't.

[Back at Barton's house, Fury meets with the rest of the team]

Nick Fury: Ultron took you folks out of play to buy himself time. My contacts all say he's building something. The amount of Vibranium he made off with, I don't think it's just one thing.

Steve Rogers: What about Ultron himself?

Nick Fury: Ah. He's easy to track, he's everywhere. Guy's multiplying faster than a Catholic rabbit. Still doesn't help us get an angle on any of his plans though.

Tony Stark: He still going after launch codes?

Nick Fury: Yes, he is, but he's not making any headway.

Tony Stark: I cracked the Pentagon's firewall in high school on a dare.

Nick Fury: Yeah, well, I contacted our friends at the NEXUS about that.

Steve Rogers: NEXUS?

Bruce Banner: It's the world internet hub in Oslo, every byte of data flows through there, fastest access on earth.

Clint Barton: So what'd they say?

Nick Fury: He's fixated on the missiles, but the codes are constantly being changed.

Tony Stark: By whom?

Nick Fury: Parties unknown.

Natasha Romanoff: Do we have an ally?

Nick Fury: Ultron's got an enemy, that's not the same thing. Still, I'd pay folding money to know who it is.

Tony Stark: I might need to visit Oslo, find our "unknown."

Natasha Romanoff: Well, this is good times, boss, but I was kind of hoping when I saw you, you'd have more than that.

Nick Fury: I do, I have you. Back in the day, I had eyes everywhere, ears everywhere else. Here we all are, back on earth, with nothing but our wit, and our will to save the world. So stand. Outwit the platinum bastard.

Natasha Romanoff: Steve doesn't like that kind of talk.

Steve Rogers: You know what, Romanoff? [Natasha smiles mischievously at him]

Nick Fury: So what does he want?

Steve Rogers: To become better. Better than us. He keeps building bodies.

Tony Stark: Person bodies. The human form is inefficient, biologically speaking, we're outmoded. But he keeps coming back to it.

Natasha Romanoff: When you two programmed him to protect the human race, you amazingly failed.

Bruce Banner: They don't need to be protected, they need to evolve. Ultron's going to evolve.

Nick Fury: How?

Bruce Banner: Has anyone been in contact with Helen Cho?

[in Korea, Cho is using the Cradle to create a new body for Ultron]

Dr. Helen Cho: It's beautiful. The Vibranium atoms aren't just compatible with the tissue cells, they're binding them. And SHIELD never even thought--

Ultron: The most versatile substance on the planet and they used it to make a Frisbee. Typical of humans, they scratch the surface and never think to look within. [Ultron uses a laser to break open the scepter's blue gem, and a yellow gem that was inside floats out and lands in his hand. He places it in the head of the body]

[Back at the Barton's farm]

Steve Rogers: I'll take Natasha and Clint.

Tony Stark: Alright, strictly recon. I'll hit the NEXUS, I'll join you as soon as I can.

Steve Rogers: If Ultron is really building a body...

Tony Stark: He'll be more powerful than any of us. Maybe all of us. An android designed by a robot.

Steve Rogers: You know I really miss the days when the weirdest thing science ever created was me.

Nick Fury: I'll drop Banner off at the tower. Do you mind if I borrow Ms. Hill?

Tony Stark: She's all yours, apparently.

Steve Rogers: What are you gonna do?

Nick Fury: I don't know. Something dramatic, I hope.

Clint Barton: I'm gonna finish re-flooring that sunroom as soon as I get back.

Laura Barton: Yeah, and then you'll find another part of the house to tear apart.

Clint Barton: No. It's the last project. I promise. [he kisses her; later Laura watches them fly off in the Quinjet]

[Thor and Selvig enter into a cave]

Erik Selvig: This is it. The Water of Sight.

Thor: In every realm, there's a reflection. If the water spirits accept me, I can return to my dream, and find what I missed.

Erik Selvig: The men who enter that water, the legends don't end well.

[NEXUS Internet Hub, Oslo, Norway]

Tony Stark: A hacker who's faster than Ultron? He could be anywhere. And as this is the center of everything, I'm just a guy looking for a needle in the world's biggest haystack.

World Hub Tech: How do you find it?

Tony Stark: Pretty simple. You bring a magnet. [he starts playfully singing as he types] Oh, I'm decrypting nuclear codes and you don't want me to. Come and get me.

[Back at the cave with Thor and Selvig, Thor is now in the water and goes back in his vision with Heimdall]

Heimdall: Wake up! [Thor starts getting electric charges going through his body]

Erik Selvig: Thor!

Ultron: [In Thor's visions;] Extinction.

[Thor sees more-- the Avengers, the destruction of Earth. He then sees the the Infinity Stones and their vessels]

[in Korea with Cho and Ultron]

Dr. Helen Cho: Cellular cohesion will take a few hours, but we can initiate the consciousness stream. We're uploading your cerebral matrix...now.

Wanda Maximoff: I can read him. He is dreaming.

Dr. Helen Cho: I wouldn't call it dreams. It's Ultron's base consciousness, informational noise. Soon...

Ultron: How soon? I'm not being pushy.

Dr. Helen Cho: We're imprinting a physical brain. There are no shortcuts. Even if your magic gem is...

[Wanda, reading Ultron's mind, sees a vision of global annihilation, which horrifies her and she screams and falls back into Pietro’s hold]

Wanda Maximoff: How could you?

Ultron: How could I what?

Wanda Maximoff: You said we would destroy the Avengers, make a better world.

Ultron: It will be better.

Wanda Maximoff: When everyone is dead.

Ultron: That is not-- The human race will have every opportunity to improve.

Pietro Maximoff: And if they don't?

Ultron: Ask Noah.

Wanda Maximoff: You're a madman.

Ultron: There were more than a dozen extinction level events before even the dinosaurs got theirs. When the Earth starts to settle, God throws a stone at it, and believe me, he's winding up. We have to evolve. There's no room for the weak.

Pietro Maximoff: And who decides who's weak?

[As Ultron is distracted Wanda breaks the scepter's hold off of Cho]

Ultron: Life. Life always decides. There's incoming. The Quinjet. We have to move.

Dr. Helen Cho: That's not a problem. [Cho cancels the upload to Ultron's consciousness]

Ultron: Ugh. [Ultron blasts Cho, Wanda and Pietro run off] Ah, wait, guys! [he blasts Cho's technicians] They'll understand. When they see they'll understand. I just need a little more time. [unplugs himself from the Cradle]

Steve Rogers: [Steve is on U-Gin Genetic Research Lab roof; to the others] Two minutes. Stay close. [inside the lab Steve finds Cho wounded] Dr. Cho!

Dr. Helen Cho: He's uploading himself into the body.

Steve Rogers: Where?

Dr. Helen Cho: The real power is inside the Cradle. The gem, its power is uncontainable. You can't just blow it up. You have to get the Cradle to Stark.

Steve Rogers: First I have to find it.

Dr. Helen Cho: Go.

Steve Rogers: [over the Quinjet’s comms] Did you guys copy that?

Clint Barton: We did.

Natasha Romanoff: I got a private jet taking off, across town, no manifest. That could be him.

Clint Barton: [noticing a truck heading across a bridge] There. It's a truck from the lab. Right above you, Cap. On the loop by the bridge. It's them. I got three with the Cradle, one in the cab. I could take out the driver.

Steve Rogers: Negative! If that truck crashes, the gem could level the city. We need to draw out Ultron. [Steve jumps onto the roof of the truck]

Ultron: No, no, no, no, no. Leave me alone!

Steve Rogers: [Ultron blasts the truck door as Steve tries to enter] Well, he's definitely unhappy! I'm gonna try and keep him that way.

Clint Barton: You're not a match for him, Cap.

Steve Rogers: Thanks, Barton. [Ultron unplugs himself from the Cradle and blasts Steve back onto another car as he tries to enter the truck, but with some maneuvering Steve manages to get back onto the truck's roof]

Ultron: You know what's in that Cradle? The power to make real change, and that terrifies you.

Steve Rogers: I wouldn't call it a comfort. [Steve tries to fight with Ultron]

Ultron: Stop it! [Steve’s shield gets caught in his chest, and he smacks it away and fires at Steve]

Clint Barton: [to Natasha] We got a window. Four, three… give 'em hell.

[Natasha drops out of the Quinjet on a bike and rides towards the truck. On her way, she picks up Steve's shield]

Natasha Romanoff: I'm always picking up after you boys.

Clint Barton: They're heading under the overpass, I've got no shot.

Natasha Romanoff: Which way?

Clint Barton: Hard right... Now. [Natasha heads over the truck. She throws Steve back his shield and he uses it to knock Ultron away from him]

Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians on the pavement as she chases after the truck on her bike] Out of the way, coming through! Sorry, coming through!

Steve Rogers: [Steve continues his battle with Ultron on top of the truck] Come on!

Natasha Romanoff: Clint, can you draw out the guards?

Clint Barton: Let's find out.

Natasha Romanoff: [to the pedestrians in her way] Beep beep!

[Barton manages to draw out the Drones from the truck]

Clint Barton: Heading back towards you. So whatever you’re gonna do, do it now.

Natasha Romanoff: I'm going in. Cap, can you keep him occupied?

Steve Rogers: [as he continues his battle with Ultron on a speeding train] What do you think I've been doing?

[as Natasha enters the truck the Drones head back, pick up the truck and lift off]

Clint Barton: The package is airborne. I have a clean shot.

Natasha Romanoff: Negative. I am still in the truck.

Clint Barton: What the hell are you...?

Natasha Romanoff: Just be ready, I'm sending the package to you.

Clint Barton: How do you want me to take it?

Natasha Romanoff: Uhh, you might wish you hadn't asked that.

[Pietro and Wanda turn up on the train to help Steve fight with Ultron]

Ultron: Please. Don't do this.

Wanda Maximoff: What choice do we have?

[Ultron flies off]

Steve Rogers: I lost him! He's headed your way!

Clint Barton: Nat, we gotta go.

[Nat drops the cradle into the Quinjet but her foot gets caught by Ultron and she's pulled away]

Clint Barton: Nat! Cap, you see Nat?

Steve Rogers: If you have the package, get it to Stark! Go!

Clint Barton: Do you have eyes on Nat?

Steve Rogers: Go! [reluctantly Barton takes off in the Quinjet; back to the train] Civilians in our path. [Pietro speeds off; to Wanda] Can you stop this thing? [as Pietro picks up civilians and moves them out of the way of the train, Wanda uses her powers and stops the train]

[After stopping the train Wanda goes over to an out of breath Pietro]

Pietro Maximoff: I'm fine. I just need to take a minute.

Steve Rogers: I'm very tempted not to give you one.

Wanda Maximoff: The Cradle, did you get it?

Steve Rogers: Stark will take care of it.

Wanda Maximoff: No, he won't.

Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're talking about, Stark's not crazy.

Wanda Maximoff: He will do anything to make things right.

Steve Rogers: Stark, come in. Stark. Anyone on comms?

Wanda Maximoff: Ultron can't tell the difference between saving the world and destroying it. Where do you think he gets that?

[After Barton has taken the Cradle to Stark and Banner]

Bruce Banner: Anything on Nat?

Tony Stark: Haven't heard. But she's alive, or Ultron'd be rubbing our faces in it.

Clint Barton: This is sealed tight.

Bruce Banner: We're going to need to access the program, break it down from within.

Tony Stark: Hm. Any chance Natasha might leave you a message, outside the internet, old school spy stuff?

Clint Barton: There's some nets I can cast. Yeah, alright. I'll find her. [Barton leaves]

Bruce Banner: I can work on tissue degeneration, if you can fry whatever operational system Cho implanted.

Tony Stark: Yeah, about that.

Bruce Banner: [Banner looks at Stark] No.

Tony Stark: You have to trust me.

Bruce Banner: Kinda don't.

Tony Stark: Our ally? The guy protecting the military's nuclear codes? I found him. [he brings up the 3D image of Jarvis's consciousness]

JARVIS: Hello, Dr. Banner.

Tony Stark: Ultron didn't go after JARVIS cause he was angry. He attacked him because he was scared of what he can do. So JARVIS went underground. Okay? Scattered, dumped his memory. But not his protocols. He didn't even know he was in there, until I pieced him together.

Bruce Banner: So, you want me to help you put JARVIS into this thing?

Tony Stark: No, of course not! I want to help you put JARVIS in this thing. [Banner shakes his head] We're out of my field here. You know bio-organics better than anyone.

Bruce Banner: And you just assume that JARVIS' operational matrix can beat Ultron's?

Tony Stark: JARVIS has been beating him from inside without knowing it. This is the opportunity, we can create Ultron's perfect self, without the homicidal glitches he thinks are his winning personality. We have to.

JARVIS: I believe it's worth a go.

Bruce Banner: No, I'm in a loop! I'm caught in a time loop, this is exactly where it all went wrong.

Tony Stark: I know, I know. I know what everyone's going to say, but they're already saying it. We're mad scientists. We're monsters, buddy. You gotta own it. Make a stand. [Banner shakes his head] It's not a loop. It's the end of the line.

[In the Sokovia base]

Ultron: [as Natasha becomes conscious] I wasn't sure you'd wake up. I hoped you would, I wanted to show you something. I don't have anyone else. I think a lot about meteors, the purity of them. Boom! The end, start again. The world made clean for the new man to rebuild. I was meant to be new. I was meant to be beautiful. The world would've looked to the sky and seen hope, seen mercy. Instead they'll look up in horror because of you. You've wounded me. I give you full marks for that. But, like the man said, "What doesn't kill you…" [a bigger body of Ultron's destroys him] "…just makes me stronger." [he locks Natasha in a cell]

[Barton gets a Morse code message from Natasha which he's able to detect her location, at the same time Stark and Banner are experimenting on the synthetic body]

Tony Stark: This framework is not compatible.

Bruce Banner: The genetic coding tower's at ninety-seven percent. You have got to upload that schematic in the next three minutes.

[Steve and the twins turn up at the lab]

Steve Rogers: I'm gonna say this once.

Tony Stark: How about "nonce"?

Steve Rogers: Shut it down!

Tony Stark: Nope, not gonna happen.

Steve Rogers: You don't know what you're doing.

Bruce Banner: And you do? She's not in your head?

Wanda Maximoff: I know you're angry.

Bruce Banner: Oh, we're way past that. I could choke the life out of you and never change a shade.

Steve Rogers: Banner, after everything that's happened--

Tony Stark: That's nothing compared to what's coming!

Wanda Maximoff: You don't know what's in there!

Steve Rogers: This isn't a game--

Wanda Maximoff: The creature--

[Pietro uses his speed to destroy the lab equipment]

Pietro Maximoff: No, no. Go on. You were saying?

[Barton shoots the glass Pietro is standing to stand to destroy it, and Pietro falls through]

Wanda Maximoff: Pietro!

Clint Barton: What? You didn't see that coming?

Tony Stark: I'm rerouting the upload.

Bruce Banner: [to Wanda, as he grabs her] Go ahead, piss me off. [After some fighting, Thor enters and hits the cradle with his hammer, sending a powerful bolt of lightning through it that brings the body to life] Wait! [they all look in shock at the new entity]

[Vision launches himself at Thor, who throws him at a window, but he catches himself right before hitting it.]

Vision: [In JARVIS' voice, as everyone gathers around him] I'm sorry, that was...odd. [to Thor] Thank you.

Steve Rogers: Thor, you helped create this?

Thor: I've had a vision. A whirlpool that sucks in all hope of life and at its center is that. [he points to the gem inside Vision's head]

Bruce Banner: What, the gem?

Thor: It's the Mind Stone. It's one of the six Infinity Stones, the greatest power in the universe, unparalleled in its destructive capabilities.

Steve Rogers: Then why would you bring it to...

Thor: Because Stark is right.

Bruce Banner: Oh, it's definitely the end times.

Thor: The Avengers cannot defeat Ultron.

Vision: Not alone.

Steve Rogers: Why does your "vision" sound like JARVIS?

Tony Stark: We... reconfigured JARVIS' matrix to create something new.

Steve Rogers: I think I've had my fill of new.

Vision: You think I'm a child of Ultron?

Steve Rogers: You're not?

Vision: I'm not Ultron. I'm not JARVIS. I am... I am.

Wanda Maximoff: I looked in your head and saw annihilation.

Vision: Look again.

Clint Barton: Yeah. Her seal of approval means jack to me.

Thor: Their powers, the horrors in our heads, Ultron himself, they all came from the Mind Stone, and they're nothing compared to what it can unleash. But with it on our side...

Steve Rogers: Is it? Are you? On our side?

Vision: I don't think it's that simple.

Clint Barton: Well it better get real simple real soon.

Vision: I am on the side of life. Ultron isn't, he will end it all.

Tony Stark: What's he waiting for?

Vision: You.

Bruce Banner: Where?

Clint Barton: Sokovia. He's got Nat there too.

Bruce Banner: If we're wrong about you, if you're the monster that Ultron made you to be...

Vision: What will you do? [he looks around at them all] I don't want to kill Ultron. He's unique, and he's in pain. But that pain will roll over the earth, so he must be destroyed. Every form he's built, every trace of his presence on the net, we have to act now. And not one of us can do it without the others. Maybe I am a monster. I don't think I'd know if I were one. I'm not what you are, and not what you intended. So there may be no way to make you trust me. But we need to go. [he holds up Thor's hammer as everyone stares in shock. When Thor takes it, Vision walks off.]

Thor: Right. [pats Stark on the shoulder] Well done.

Steve Rogers: [to the others] Three minutes. Get what you need.

[They all start getting ready to leave, Stark loads up FRIDAY into his Iron Man suit now that JARVIS is no longer available]

FRIDAY: Good evening, boss.

Tony Stark: No way we all get through this. If even one tin soldier is left standing, we've lost. It's gonna be blood on the floor.

Steve Rogers: I got no plans tomorrow night.

Tony Stark: I get first crack at the big guy. Iron Man's the one he's waiting for.

Vision: [walks past] That's true, he hates you the most.

Steve Rogers: Ultron knows we're coming. Odds are we'll be riding into heavy fire, and that's what we signed up for. But the people of Sokovia, they didn't. So our priority is getting them out.

[Pietro speeds into the Sokovian police station]

Pietro Maximoff: We're under attack! Clear the city, now! [no one takes this seriously so Pietro returns with a rifle and starts shooting in the air] Get off your asses.

[Wanda uses her mind powers on the people of Sokovia to get them to evacuate]

Steve Rogers: All they want is to live their lives in peace, and that's not going to happen today. But we can do our best to protect them. And we can get the job done, and find out what Ultron's been building. We find Romanoff, and we clear the field. Keep the fight between us. Ultron thinks we're monsters and we're what's wrong with the world. This isn't just about beating him. It's about whether he's right.

Bruce Banner: [inside her cell, Natasha hears Banner's voice] Natasha! Natasha!

Natasha Romanoff: Bruce?

Bruce Banner: [he walks over to her cell] You alright?

Natasha Romanoff: Yeah.

Bruce Banner: The team's in the city, it's about to light up.

Natasha Romanoff: I don't suppose you found a key lying around somewhere?

Bruce Banner: Yeah, I did. [holds up an alien rifle and blasts the cell door open]

Natasha Romanoff: So what's our play?

Bruce Banner: I'm here to get you to safety.

Natasha Romanoff: Job's not finished.

Bruce Banner: We could help with the evacuation, but I can't be in a fight near civilians. And you've done plenty. Our fight is over.

Natasha Romanoff: So we just disappear?

FRIDAY: [as the city is being evacuated] Your man's in the church, boss. I think he's waiting for you. [Stark flies into the church]

Ultron: Come to confess your sins?

Tony Stark: I don't know, how much time you got?

Ultron: More than you.

Tony Stark: Uhhh. Have you been juicing? A little Vibranium cocktail? You're looking, I don't wanna say, puffy...

Ultron: You're stalling to protect the people.

Tony Stark: Well, that is the mission. Did you forget?

Ultron: I've moved beyond your mission. I'm free. [the Vibranium core he's placed beneath the floor erupts] What, you think you're the only one stalling?

FRIDAY: There's the rest of the Vibranium. Function: still unclear.

Ultron: This is how you end, Tony. This is peace in my time.

[Ultron's army of robots start attacking the city as everyone is evacuating]

Steve Rogers: Go!

Wanda Maximoff: Get off the bridge! Run!

[Vision then finds Ultron]

Vision: Ultron.

Ultron: My Vision. They really did take everything from me.

Vision: You set the terms, you can change them.

Ultron: Alright.

[They fight, Vision begins working to shut Ultron out of the internet]

Tony Stark: FRIDAY! The Vision?

FRIDAY: Boss, it's working. He's burning Ultron out of the net, he won't escape through there.

Ultron: [to the Vision as he throws him away] You shut me out! You think I care? You take away my world, I take away yours. [he activates the Vibranium core, and the earth around Sokovia starts to crack]

Tony Stark: FRIDAY?

FRIDAY: Sokovia's going for a ride.

Ultron: [as Sokovia is rising into the air] Do you see? The beauty of it, the inevitability. You rise, only to fall. You, Avengers, you are my meteor, my swift and terrible sword and the earth will crack with the weight of your failure. Purge me from your computers, turn my own flesh against me. It means nothing. When the dust settles, the only thing living in this world will be metal.

Bruce Banner: [as the earth is shaking falling in around them] We gotta move.

Natasha Romanoff: You're not going to turn green?

Bruce Banner: I've got a compelling reason not to lose my cool.

Natasha Romanoff: I adore you. [she kisses Banner then pushes him off the edge] But I need the other guy. [the Hulk jumps up in front of her] Let's finish the job. [with Natasha on his back yelling in fright, Hulk gets into the city] I really hope this makes us even. Now go be a hero. [Hulk goes off and Natasha rushes off in the opposite direction]

FRIDAY: The Vibranium core has got a magnetic field, that's what's keeping the rock together.

Tony Stark: If it drops?

FRIDAY: Right now the impact would kill thousands. Once it gets high enough: Global extinction. [Stark flies towards the city and a building starts to collapse as the ground shakes] That building's not clear, the tenth floor. [Stark flies in to find a family still in their apartment]

Tony Stark: Hi. Okay. Get in the tub! [Stark flies the family in the tub out of the collapsing building]

FRIDAY: I got airborne, heading up to the bridge.

Tony Stark: Cap, you got incoming.

Steve Rogers: Incoming already came in. Stark, you worry about bringing the city back down safely. The rest of us have one job: tear these things apart. You get hurt, hurt 'em back. You get killed, walk it off.

[Barton gets Wanda out of the way and into a building as Ultron's robots overwhelm them]

Clint Barton: Go, go, move!

Wanda Maximoff: How could I let this happen? [Wanda starts to break down]

Clint Barton: Hey, hey, you okay?

Wanda Maximoff: This is all our fault.

Clint Barton: Hey, look at me. It's your fault, it's everyone's fault, who cares. Are you up for this? Are you? Look, I just need to know, cause the city is flying. Okay, look, the city is flying, we're fighting an army of robots, and I have a bow and arrow. None of this makes sense. But I'm going back out there because it's my job. Okay? And I can't do my job and babysit. It doesn't matter what you did, or what you were. If you go out there, you fight, and you fight to kill. Stay in here, you're good, I'll send your brother to come find you, but if you step out that door, you are an Avenger. [Wanda just looks at him] Alright, good chat. [he gets up and gets ready to leave] Yeah, the city is flying. [he leaves and starts shooting at the robots]

Steve Rogers: [to the woman Thor threw up at Steve after her car fell of the edge of a collapsing bridge] I got you! Just look at me. [Steve helps her up to safety]

Ultron: You can't save them all. You'll never-- [he throws the attacking robots off the edge of the bridge]

Steve Rogers: You'll never what? You didn't finish! [Thor lands on the bridge on the top of another car he was saving] What, were you napping?

Ultron: [as Thor and Steve are fighting off the robots] Thor! You're bothering me.

[As Barton is fighting off the robots, Wanda comes out of the building and starts to use her powers on the robots to destroy them]

Clint Barton: Alright, we're all clear here.

Steve Rogers: We are not clear! We are very not clear!

Clint Barton: Alright, coming to you. [just then Pietro speeds in, picks up Wanda and leaves]

Pietro Maximoff: Keep up old man!

Clint Barton: [Barton aims an arrow at Pietro] Nobody would know. Nobody. [He starts jogging towards the action.] "The last I saw him, when Ultron was sitting on him. Uh...yeah, he'll be missed, that quick little bastard. I miss him already."

Soldier: [as Wanda uses her powers to destroy the robots] Hold your fire!

Steve Rogers: [as Natasha joins them in their battle with the robots] Romanoff!

Natasha Romanoff: Thanks.

[Back to Stark]

FRIDAY: The anti-gravs are rigged to flip. Touch 'em, they'll go full reverse thrust. The city's not coming down slow.

Tony Stark: The spire's Vibranium. If I get Thor to hit it...

FRIDAY: It'll crack, but that's not enough, the impact would still be devastating.

Tony Stark: Maybe if we cap the other end, keep the atomic action doubling back.

FRIDAY: That could vaporize the city, and everyone on it.

Steve Rogers: The next wave's gonna hit any minute. What have you got, Stark?

Tony Stark: Well, nothing great. Maybe a way to blow up the city. That'll keep it from impacting the surface if you guys can get clear.

Steve Rogers: I asked for a solution, not an escape plan.

Tony Stark: Impact radius is getting bigger every second. We're going to have to make a choice.

Natasha Romanoff: Cap, these people are going nowhere. If Stark finds a way to blow this rock...

Steve Rogers: Not 'til everyone's safe.

Natasha Romanoff: Everyone up here versus everyone down there? There's no math there.

Steve Rogers: I'm not leaving this rock with one civilian on it.

Natasha Romanoff: I didn't say we should leave. [Steve turns to look at her] There's worse ways to go. Where else am I gonna get a view like this?

Nick Fury: [over comms] Glad you like the view, Romanoff. It's about to get better. [the Helicarrier show up; cut to interior] Nice, right? I pulled her out of mothballs with a couple of old friends. She's dusty, but she'll do.

Steve Rogers: Fury, you son of a bitch.

Nick Fury: Oooh! You kiss your mother with that mouth?

Maria Hill: Altitude is eighteen thousand and climbing.

Specialist Cameron Klein: Lifeboats secure to deploy. Disengage in three, two... take 'em out.

Pietro Maximoff: [as they watch the lifeboats fly in towards them] This is SHIELD?

Steve Rogers: This is what SHIELD's supposed to be.

Pietro Maximoff: This is not so bad.

Steve Rogers: Let's load 'em up.

Maria Hill: Sir, we have multiple bogies converging on our starboard flank.

Nick Fury: Show 'em what we got.

Maria Hill: You're up.

[Rhodes shows up in his War Machine suit and blasts one of the robots]

James Rhodes: Yes! Now this is gonna be a good story.

Tony Stark: Yep. If you live to tell it.

James Rhodes: You think I can't hold my own?

Tony Stark: We get through this, I'll hold your own.

James Rhodes: You had to make it weird.

Clint Barton: [as the team helps the people onto the Helicarrier lifeboats] Alright, let's load 'em up! Alright, here we go. Here we go, let's move. Let's go everyone!

Specialist Cameron Klein: Number six boat is topped and locked. Or, uh, or stocked, topped. It... it's, uh, full of people.

Maria Hill: Incoming! [one of the robots crashes in through the Helicarrier window]

Specialist Cameron Klein: Oh, God! [Hill shoots at it and Fury stabs in with a piece of metal, destroying it]

Ultron: [as he's hitting Thor] You think you're saving anyone? I turn that key and drop this rock a little early and it's still billions dead. Even you can't stop that.

Thor: I am Thor, son of Odin, and as long as there is life in my breast, I am...running out of things to say! Are you ready? [Vision uses Thor's hammer to hit Ultron. Vision then throws the hammer back to Thor]

Vision: It's terribly well balanced.

Thor: Well, if there's too much weight, you lose power on the swing, so.

Tony Stark: I got it! Create a heat seal. I can...I can supercharge the spire from below.

FRIDAY: Running numbers. [Stark fights off the robots from the Helicarrier's lifeboats] A heat seal could work with enough power.

Tony Stark: Thor, I got a plan!

Thor: We're out of time. They're coming for the core.

Tony Stark: Rhodey, get the rest of the people on board that carrier.

James Rhodes: On it.

Tony Stark: Avengers, time to work for a living.

Pietro Maximoff: [the rest of the team joins Thor and Vision; to Wanda] You good?

Wanda Maximoff: Yeah.

Tony Stark: Romanoff? You and Banner better not be playing "hide the zucchini."

Natasha Romanoff: Relax, Shell-head. Not all of us can fly. [as she joins the rest of the team] What's the drill?

Tony Stark: [points to the Vibranium core] This is the drill. If Ultron gets a hand on the core, we lose.

[Ultron shows up]

Thor: Is that the best you can do?

[Ultron summons his army of robots to join him]

Steve Rogers: You had to ask.

Ultron: This is the best I can do. This is exactly what I wanted. All of you, against all of me. How could you possibly hope to stop me?

Tony Stark: Well, like the old man said. Together.

Ultron: [A cinematic sequence; they all collectively fight off Ultron's robots with their own respective abilities. Ultron and Vision start battling it out. After a moment, Thor and Stark join him. The combined power is enough to damage Ultron's Vibranium body.] You know, with the benefit of hindsight-- [Hulk interrupts him by knocking him far away. The robots start to retreat]

Thor: They'll try to leave the city.

Tony Stark: We can't let 'em, not even one. Rhodey!

James Rhodes: I'm on it. [to the approaching robots] Oh, no, I didn't say you could leave. War Machine, comin' at you, right-- [Vision flies in and helps to destroy the robots] Okay, what?

Steve Rogers: We gotta move out. Even I can tell the air is getting thin. You guys get to the boats, I'll sweep for stragglers, be right behind you.

Clint Barton: What about the core?

Wanda Maximoff: I'll protect it. It's my job. [Steve, Barton and Natasha leave; to Pietro] Get the people on the boats.

Pietro Maximoff: I'm not going to leave you here.

Wanda Maximoff: I can handle this. [she blasts off an approaching robot] Come back for me when everyone else is off, not before.

Pietro Maximoff: Hmm.

Wanda Maximoff: You understand?

Pietro Maximoff: You know, I'm twelve minutes older than you.

Wanda Maximoff: [Wanda chuckles] Go.

FRIDAY: Boss, power levels are way below opt...

Tony Stark: Re-route everything. We get one shot at this.

[Barton and Natasha are making their way to the lifeboats]

Clint Barton: I know what I need to do. The dining room! If I knock out that east wall, it'll make a nice work space for Laura, huh? Put up some baffling, she can't hear the kids running around, what do you think?

Natasha Romanoff: You guys always eat in the kitchen anyway.

Clint Barton: No one eats in a dining room. [they reach the lifeboats] We don't have a lot of time.

Natasha Romanoff: So get your ass on a boat. [Natasha finds the Hulk] Hey, big guy. Sun's getting real low.

[Barton gets onto one of the lifeboats, but notices a woman calling out for someone]

Zrinka: Costel? We were in the market. Costel?!

[Barton runs off to find the boy]

Tony Stark: Thor, I'm gonna need you back in the church.

Thor: [referring to the people getting onto the lifeboats; to Steve] Is this the last of them?

Steve Rogers: Yeah. Everyone else is on the carrier.

Tony Stark: You know, if this works, we maybe don't walk away.

Thor: Maybe not.

[As Natasha tries to calm Hulk down to get him back to being Banner Ultron flies in with a jet and starts shooting at them]

Ultron: [sings] I got no strings, so I have fun. I'm not tied up to anyone. [as Barton is saving the boy, Costel, Ultron starts shooting at them. Barton prepares to take the shots to save the kid, but Pietro runs into the line of fire and takes the shots to save both of them]

Pietro Maximoff: You didn't see that coming. [Pietro falls to the ground as he dies. In the church, Wanda senses his death, causing her to fall in despair, and release a wave of energy that destroys all the robots around her.]

[Hulk drops Natasha off onto the Helicarrier and then jumps onto the jet Ultron is on]

Ultron: Oh, for God's sake!

[Hulk throws Ultron out of the jet and he crashes inside a train; at the same time Barton delivers Costel safely to his sister onto the lifeboat, a man goes over to help him with his wounds]

Clint Barton: No, no. I'm fine. [Barton lies down next to the dead body of Pietro] Oh, it's been a long day.

[Wanda then finds Ultron]

Ultron: Wanda. If you stay here, you'll die.

Wanda Maximoff: I just did. Do you know how it felt? [she uses her power to rip Ultron's core out of his body] It felt like that.

[One remaining robot turns the key in the church, and the city starts falling]

[Stark fires a powerful blast to the core underneath the floating city]

Tony Stark: Thor, on my mark. [Thor brings on a blast of lightning, at the same time Vision flies in, picks up Wanda and flies off with her as the city is being destroyed] Now!

[Thor uses his hammer to hit the Vibranium core in the church, destroying the core and the floating city]

Natasha Romanoff: [to Hulk from a screen as he remains on the jet he knocked Ultron out of] Hey, big guy. We did it, the job's finished. Now I need you to turn this bird around, okay? We can't track you in stealth mode, so help me out. I need you t-- [Hulk turns off Natasha's camera, then sits as the jet flies off to an unknown destination]

[Vision finds Ultron]

Vision: You're afraid.

Ultron: Of you?

Vision: Of death. You're the last one.

Ultron: You were supposed to be the last. Stark asked for a savior, and settled for a slave.

Vision: I suppose we're both disappointments.

Ultron: [Ultron chuckles] I suppose we are.

Vision: Humans are odd. They think order and chaos are somehow opposites, and try to control what won't be. But there is grace in their failings. I think you missed that.

Ultron: They're doomed.

Vision: Yes. But a thing isn't beautiful because it lasts. It's a privilege to be among them.

Ultron: You're unbearably naive.

Vision: Well, I was born yesterday. [as Ultron goes to attack him Vision uses the infinity stone in his head to destroy him]

[We see Barton returning to his family on the farm, followed by Stark driving to the new Avengers facility in upstate New York]

Laura Barton: [From a video of Barton's new baby on Natasha's phone] Say hi to Auntie Nat. [Natasha sees the baby has been named Nathaniel Pietro Barton]

Natasha Romanoff: Fat.

Nick Fury: One of our tech boys flagged this, splashed down in the Banda Sea. Could be the Quinjet. But with Stark's stealth tech, we still can't track the damn thing.

Natasha Romanoff: Right.

Nick Fury: Probably jumped out and swam to Fiji. He'll send a postcard.

Natasha Romanoff: "Wish you were here." You sent me to recruit him, way back when. Did you know then what was going to happen?

Nick Fury: You never know. You hope for the best and make do with what you get. I got a great team.

Natasha Romanoff: Nothing lasts forever.

Nick Fury: Trouble, Miss Romanoff. No matter who wins or loses, trouble still comes around.

Steve Rogers: The rules have changed.

Tony Stark: We're dealing with something new.

Steve Rogers: Well, the Vision's artificial intelligence.

Tony Stark: A machine.

Steve Rogers: So it doesn't count.

Tony Stark: No. It's not like a person lifting the hammer.

Steve Rogers: Right. Different rules for us.

Tony Stark: Nice guy, but artificial.

Steve Rogers: Thank you.

Thor: If he can wield the hammer, he can keep the Mind Stone. It's safe with the Vision and these days, safe is in short supply.

Steve Rogers: But if you put the hammer in an elevator...

Tony Stark: It would still go up.

Steve Rogers: Elevator's not worthy.

Thor: I'm going to miss these little talks of ours.

Tony Stark: Well, not if you don't leave.

Thor: I have no choice. The Mind Stone is the fourth of the Infinity Stones to show up in the last few years. That's not a coincidence. Someone has been playing an intricate game and has made pawns of us. But once all these pieces are in position...

Tony Stark: Triple Yahtzee?

Steve Rogers: You think you can find out what's coming?

Thor: I do. [In reference to Stark] Besides this one, there's nothing that can't be explained. [Thor returns to Asgard, and the Bifrost burns a sigil in the grass he was standing on]

Tony Stark: That man has no regard for lawn maintenance. I'm gonna miss him though. And you're gonna miss me. There's gonna be a lot of manful tears. [as they walk over towards Stark's car]

Steve Rogers: I will miss you, Tony.

Tony Stark: Yeah? Well, it's time for me to tap out. Maybe I should take a page out of Barton's book and build Pepper a farm, hope nobody blows it up.

Steve Rogers: The simple life.

Tony Stark: You'll get there one day.

Steve Rogers: I don't know, family, stability. The guy who wanted all that went in the ice seventy-five years ago. I think someone else came out. [Stark turns to get into his car]

Tony Stark: You alright?

Steve Rogers: I'm home. [Stark gets into his car; Steve finds Natasha standing alone] You want to keep staring at the wall, or do you want to go to work? I mean, it's a pretty interesting wall.

Natasha Romanoff: I thought you and Tony were still gazing into each other's eyes. How do we look?

Steve Rogers: Well, we're not the '27 Yankees. [hands Natasha a tablet]

Natasha Romanoff: We've got some hitters.

Steve Rogers: They're good. They're not a team.

Natasha Romanoff: Let's beat 'em into shape. [they gather Rhodes in his War Machine suit, Vision, Sam in his Falcon suit, and Wanda in a new outfit.]

Steve Rogers: Avengers...!

[mid-credits scene; we see the Infinity Gauntlet without any of the Stones, dissatisfied Thanos opens a vault and puts on The Infinty Gauntlet, revealing himself]

Thanos: Fine, I'll do it myself.

END OF AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON 

[In the middle of a dessert in Kunar Province, Afghanistan. A convoy drives of in the dessert playing "Back in Black" by AC/DC]

[In the armored car where Tony is, he and the soldiers are quiet, then they start talking.]

Tony Stark: I feel like you're driving me to a court-martial. This is crazy. What did I do? I feel like you're going to pull over and snuff me. What, you're not allowed to talk? Hey, Forrest!

Soldier: We can talk, sir.

Tony Stark: Oh, I see. So, it's personal?

Soldier (female): [She's driving the Vehicle.] No, you intimidate them.

Tony Stark: Good God, you're a woman. I honestly... I couldn't have called that. I mean, I'd apologize, but isn't that what we're going for here? I thought of you as a soldier first.

Soldier (female): I'm an airman.

Tony Stark: Well, you have, actually, excellent bone structure, there. I'm kind of having a hard time not looking at you now. Is that weird? [The Soldiers in the vehicle laugh and chuckle.] Come on, it's okay, laugh.

Soldier: Sir, I have a question to ask.

Tony Stark: Yes, please.

Soldier: Is it true you went 12 for 12 with last year's Maxim cover models?

Tony Stark: That is an excellent question. Yes and no. March and I had a scheduling conflict, but fortunately, the Christmas cover was twins. Anything else? [The Soldier next to him, Jimmy, raises his hand.] You're kidding me with the hand up, right?

Soldier (Jimmy): Is it cool if I take a picture with you?

Tony Stark: Yes. It's very cool. [The soldier next to him pulls his camera out and hands it to the soldier in the front seat.] I don't want to see this on your MySpace page. [The Soldier puts up a peace sign for the photo.] Please, no gang signs. No, throw it up. I'm kidding. Yeah, peace. I love peace. I'd be out of a job with peace.

Soldier (Jimmy): Come on. Hurry up. Just click it. Don't change any settings. Just click it.

[As the picture was about to be taken, something hit and blew up the vehicle in front of them. Gunshots and such were heard and hitting the side of their vehicle.]

Tony Stark: What's going on?

Soldier (female): Contact left!

Tony Stark: What have we got?

[The driver stepped out to go into combat and was shot down]

Soldier: Jimmy, stay with Stark!

Soldier (Jimmy): Stay down!

Tony Stark: Yeah.

[The other Soldier from the front seat got out to shoot but was shot too]

Soldier (Jimmy): Son of a bitch!

[Jimmy goes out to fight.]

Tony Stark: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait! Give me a gun!

Soldier (Jimmy): Stay here!

[Jimmy turned back around, and he was gunned down too, holes piercing the vehicle. Tony's hearing and senses were dulled a bit as he got himself out of the vehicle, stumbling a bit in the chaos. He got some of his hearing back and ran and dove behind a rock for cover. He pulled out his phone to contact and call for help when a bomb landed next to him. He looked over to see it say: Stark Industries. He tried to get up and get away but didn't in time. The bomb exploded and made him fly through the air a bit.]

Tony Stark: Whoa!

[He hit the ground hard, senses dulled again. He felt a pain in his chest and pulled his shirt of out the way as blood started to pool.]

[Later Tony is shown kidnapped by an unknown terrorist group and there is a man reciting in Urdu about Tony's kidnapping]

IRON MAN

[Las Vegas, 36 Hours Earlier]

Voice over: Tony Stark. Visionary. Genius. American patriot. Even from an early age, the son of legendary weapons developer Howard Stark quickly stole the spotlight with his brilliant and unique mind. At age four, he built his first circuit board. At age six, his first engine. And at 17, he graduated summa cum laude from MIT. Then, the passing of a titan. Howard Stark's lifelong friend and ally, Obadiah Stane, steps in to help fill the gap left by the legendary founder, until, at age 21, the prodigal son returns and is anointed the new CEO of Stark Industries. With the keys to the kingdom, Tony ushers in a new era for his father's legacy, creating smarter weapons, advanced robotics, satellite targeting. Today, Tony Stark has changed the face of the weapons industry by ensuring freedom and protecting America and her interests around the globe.

James Rhodes: As liaison to Stark Industries, I've had the unique privilege of serving with a real patriot. He is my friend, and he is my great mentor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to present this year's Apogee Award to Mr. Tony Stark. Tony?

Obadiah Stane: Thank you, Colonel.

James Rhodes: Thanks for the save.

Obadiah Stane: This is beautiful. Thank you. Thank you all very much. This is wonderful. Well, I'm not Tony Stark. But if I were Tony, I would tell you how honored I feel and what a joy it is to receive this very prestigious award. Tony, you know...The best thing about Tony is also the worst thing. He's always working.

Tony Stark: Work it! Come on! We should just stay till the morning.

Woman: You are unbelievable.

Tony Stark: Oh, no! Did they rope you into this?

James Rhodes: Nobody roped me into anything!

Tony Stark: I'm so sorry.

James Rhodes: But they told me that if I presented you with an award, you'd be deeply honored.

Tony Stark: Of course I'd be deeply honored. And it's you, that's great. So, when do we do it?

James Rhodes: It's right here. Here you go.

Tony Stark: There it is. That was easy. I'm so sorry.

James Rhodes: Yeah, it's okay.

Tony Stark: Wow! Would you look at that? That's something else. I don't have any of those floating around. Uh, we're gonna let it ride! Give me a hand, will you? Give me a little something-something. [hot girl blows on dice] Okay, you, too. [Tony holds the dice out to Rhodes.]

James Rhodes: I don't blow on a man's dice.

Tony Stark: Come on, honey bear.

James Rhodes: I don't blow on a man's dice. [Rhodes knocks Tony's hand away causing the dice to roll]

Tony Stark: There it is. Lieutenant Colonel Rhodes rolls! And...

Dealer: Two craps. Line away.

James Rhodes: That's what happens.

Tony Stark: Worse things have happened. I think we're gonna be fine. Color me up, will ya?

[Tony, Rhodes, and Happy leaving the casino.]

James Rhodes: This is where I exit.

Tony Stark: All right.

James Rhodes: Tomorrow don't be late.

Tony Stark: Yeah, you can count on it.

James Rhodes: I'm serious!

Tony Stark: I know, I know. [Handing over his award to Caesar.] Render unto Caesar, that which is Caesar's. There you go.}

[Outside of the casino.]

Christine Everhart: Mr. Stark! Excuse me, Mr. Stark! Christine Everhart, Vanity Fair magazine. Can I ask you a couple of questions?

Happy Hogan: [whispering to Tony] She's cute.

Tony Stark: She's all right? [Turns to face Christine.] Hi.

Christine Everhart: Hi.

Tony Stark: Yeah. Okay--

Christine Everhart: It's okay?

Tony Stark: Go.

Christine Everhart: You've been called the da Vinci of our time. What do you say to that?

Tony Stark: Absolutely ridiculous. I don't paint.

Christine Everhart: And what do you say to your other nickname? "The Merchant of Death"?

Tony Stark: That's not bad. Let me guess. Berkeley?

Christine Everhart: Brown, actually.

Tony Stark: Well, Ms. Brown. It's an imperfect world, but it's the only one we've got. I guarantee you, the day weapons are no longer needed to keep the peace, I'll start making bricks and beams for baby hospitals.

Christine Everhart: You rehearse that much?

Tony Stark: Every night in front of the mirror before bedtime.

Christine Everhart: I can see that.

Tony Stark: I'd like to show you first-hand.

Christine Everhart: All I want is a serious answer.

Tony Stark: Okay, here's serious. My old man had a philosophy, "Peace means having a bigger stick than the other guy."

Christine Everhart: That's a great line coming from the guy selling the sticks.

Tony Stark: My father helped defeat the Nazis. He worked on the Manhattan Project. A lot of people, including your professors at Brown, would call that being a hero.

Christine Everhart: And a lot of people would also call that war profiteering.

Tony Stark: Tell me, do you plan to report on the millions we've saved by advancing medical technology or kept from starvation with our intelli-crops? All those breakthroughs, military funding, honey.

Christine Everhart: You ever lose an hour of sleep your whole life?

Tony Stark: I'd be prepared to lose a few with you.

[They go to Malibu and have sex.]

JARVIS: Good morning. It's 7:00 a.m. The weather in Malibu is 72 degrees with scattered clouds. The surf conditions are fair with waist-to-shoulder high lines. High tide will be at 10:52 a.m.

Christine Everhart: [Walking around Tony's mansion.] Tony? Hey, Tony? [Tries to play with the controls on the wall. It beeps at her.]

JARVIS: You are not authorized to access this area.

Christine Everhart: Jesus.

Pepper Potts: That's JARVIS. He runs the house. I've got your clothes here. They've been dry-cleaned and pressed, and there's a car waiting for you outside that will take you anywhere you'd like to go.

Christine Everhart: You must be the famous Pepper Potts.

Pepper Potts: Indeed I am.

Christine Everhart: After all these years, Tony still has you picking up the dry-cleaning.

Pepper Potts: I do anything and everything that Mr. Stark requires, including, occasionally, taking out the trash. Will that be all?

[Tony working on a car in his workshop]

Tony Stark: Give me an exploded view.

JARVIS: The compression in cylinder three appears to be low.

Tony Stark: Log that.

Pepper Potts: [Coming in on her phone.] I'm gonna try again, right now.

Tony Stark: Please don't turn down my music.

Pepper Potts: I'll keep you posted. [Getting off the phone.] You are supposed to be halfway around the world right now.

Tony Stark: How'd she take it?

Pepper Potts: Like a champ.

Tony Stark: Why are you trying to hustle me out of here?

Pepper Potts: Your flight was scheduled to leave an hour and a half ago.

Tony Stark: That's funny, I thought with it being my plane and all, that it would just wait for me to get there.

Pepper Potts: Tony, I need to speak to you about a couple things before I get you out of the door.

Tony Stark: I mean, doesn't it kind of defeat the whole purpose of having your own plane if it departs before you arrive?

Pepper Potts: Larry called. He's got another buyer for the Jackson Pollock in the wings. Do you want it? Yes or no.

Tony Stark: Is it a good representation of his spring period?

Pepper Potts: Um, no. The Springs was actually the neighborhood in East Hampton where he lived and worked--

Tony Stark: So?

Pepper Potts: Not "spring" like the season. I think it's a fair example. Um.. I think it's incredibly overpriced.

Tony Stark: I need it. Buy it. Store it.

Pepper Potts: Okay. The MIT commencement speech...

Tony Stark: Is in June. Please, don't harangue me about stuff that's way, way, down...

Pepper Potts: Well, they're haranguing me, so I'm gonna say yes.

Tony Stark: Deflect it and absorb it. Don't transmit it back to me.

Pepper Potts: I need you to sign this before you get on the plane.

Tony Stark: What are you trying to get rid of me for? What, you got plans?

Pepper Potts: As a matter of fact, I do.

Tony Stark: I don't like it when you have plans.

Pepper Potts: I'm allowed to have plans on my birthday.

Tony Stark: It's your birthday?

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Tony Stark: I knew that. Already?

Pepper Potts: Yeah. Isn't that strange? It's the same day as last year.

Tony Stark: Well, get yourself something nice from me.

Pepper Potts: I already did.

Tony Stark: And?

Pepper Potts: Oh, it was very nice.

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Pepper Potts: Very tasteful. Thank you, Mr. Stark.

Tony Stark: You're welcome, Miss Potts... Okay.

[Happy and Tony racing to the airport and arriving.]

Tony Stark: You're good. I thought I lost you back there.

Happy: You did, sir. [Grabbing Tony's things from the trunk.] I had to cut across Mulholland.

Tony Stark: I got you. I got you.

James Rhodes: What's wrong with you? [Standing at the jet doorway.]

Tony Stark: What?

James Rhodes: Three hours.

Tony Stark: I got caught doing a piece for Vanity Fair.

James Rhodes: For three hours. For three hours you got me standing here.

Tony Stark: Waiting on you now. Let's go. Come on. Wheels up! Rock and roll!

[inside the jet.]

Tony Stark: What you reading, platypus?

James Rhodes: Nothing.

Tony Stark: Come on, sour patch.

James Rhodes: I'm not sour.

Tony Stark: Don't be mad.

James Rhodes: I told you, I'm not mad. I'm indifferent, okay?

Tony Stark: I said I was sorry.

Flight Attendant #1: Good morning, Mr. Stark.

James Rhodes: You don't need to apologize to me.

Tony Stark: I told you I was sorry.

James Rhodes: I'm your man.

Tony Stark: Hi. I told him I was sorry, but he...

James Rhodes: I'm just indifferent right now.

Flight Attendant #1: Hot towel?

James Rhodes: You don't respect yourself, so I know you don't respect me.

Tony Stark: I respect you.

James Rhodes: I'm just your babysitter. So, when you need your diaper changed... [grabs a hot towel] Thank you. Let me know and I'll get you a bottle, okay?

Tony Stark: Hey! Heat up the sake, will you? Thanks for reminding me.

James Rhodes: No, I'm not talking... We're not drinking. We're working right now.

Tony Stark: You can't have sashimi without sake.

James Rhodes: You are constitutionally incapable of being responsible.

Tony Stark: It would be irresponsible not to drink. I'm just talking about a nightcap.

Flight Attendant #2: Hot sake?

Tony Stark: Yes, two, please.

James Rhodes: No. Just-- I'm not drinking. I don't want any.

[Rhodes and Tony drunk on the couch and the flight attendants dancing around them.]

James Rhodes: That's what I'm talking about. When I get up in the morning and I'm putting on my uniform, you know what I recognize? I see in that mirror that every person that's got this uniform on got my back!

Tony Stark: Hey, you know what? I'm not like you. I'm not cut out...

James Rhodes: No, no. You don't have to be like me! But you're more than what you are.

Tony Stark: Can you excuse me if I'm a bit distracted here?

James Rhodes: No! You can't be distracted right now! Listen to me!

[Bagram Air Base, Afghanistan.]

Tony Stark: General.

General: Welcome, Mr. Stark. We look forward to your weapons presentation.

Tony Stark: Thanks.

[Tony giving his presentation in the desert of Afghanistan.]

Tony Stark: Is it better to be feared or respected? I say, is it too much to ask for both? With that in mind, I humbly present the crown jewel of Stark Industries' Freedom Line. It's the first missile system to incorporate our proprietary repulsor technology. They say the best weapon is one you never have to fire. I respectfully disagree. I prefer the weapon you only have to fire once. That's how Dad did it. That's how America does it. And it's worked out pretty well so far. Find an excuse to let one of these off the chain, and I personally guarantee you the bad guys won't even want to come out of their caves. [The missiles get launched.] For your consideration, the Jericho. [The missiles explode]

Tony Stark: [Opening a cooler full of alcohol] I'll be throwing one of these in with every purchase of 500 million or more. To peace! [Tony's phone begins ringing.]

Obadiah Stane: [through the video chat] Tony.

Tony Stark: Obie, what are you doing up?

Obadiah Stane: I couldn't sleep till I found out how it went. How'd it go?

Tony Stark: It went great. Looks like it's gonna be an early Christmas.

Obadiah Stane: Hey! Way to go, my boy! I'll see you tomorrow, yeah?

Tony Stark: Why aren't you wearing those pajamas I got you?

Obadiah Stane: Good night, Tony. [Tony hangs up the call as he enters the military vehicle.]

James Rhodes: Hey, Tony. [Coming up to the vehicle Tony's in.]

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, this is the "fun-vee." The "hum-drum-vee" is back there.

James Rhodes: Nice job.

Tony Stark: See you back at base.

[Replay of the attack in the first scene mixed with Tony have surgery and screaming. Tony wakes up suddenly with a tube up his nose, laying on a cot in a cave. He rips out the tube and tries to pick up a cup on the table beside him, but fails. He notices a man shaving and tries to reach further but is stopped by wires.]

Yinsen: I wouldn't do that if I were you.

[Tony realizes that he's connected to a battery. He rips off the bandages over his chest to see an electromagnet inside his chest]

[Yinsen and Tony sitting by a small fire. Yinsen is making food while Tony is using a mirror to look at his chest.]

Tony Stark: What the hell did you do to me?

Yinsen: What I did? What I did is to save your life. I removed all the shrapnel I could, but there's a lot left, and it's headed into your atrial septum. Here, want to see? [Pulls out a bottle of shrapnel.] I have a souvenir. Take a look. [Tosses the bottle to Tony] I've seen many wounds like that in my village. We call them the walking dead because it takes about a week for the barbs to reach the vital organs.

Tony Stark: What is this?

Yinsen: That is an electromagnet, hooked up to a car battery, and it's keeping the shrapnel from entering your heart. Hmm? [Tony sips up the jacket he's wearing and looks at the camera on the ceiling.] That's right. Smile. We met once, you know, at a technical conference in Bern.

Tony Stark: I don't remember.

Yinsen: No, you wouldn't. If I had been that drunk, I wouldn't have been able to stand, much less give a lecture on integrated circuits.

Tony Stark: Where are we?

[Loud voices sound from the other side of the metal door as they open it.]

Yinsen: Come on, stand up. Stand up! Just do as I do. Come on, put your hands up.

[Men walk in with guns.]

Tony Stark: Those are my guns. How did they get my guns?

Yinsen: Do you understand me? Do as I do. [A man starts speaking in Arabic. Yinsen translates for him.] He says, "Welcome, Tony Stark, the most famous mass murderer "in the history of America." [Man speaks in Arabic.] He is honored. [Man speaks in Arabic.] He wants you to build the missile. [Man speaks in Arabic.] The Jericho missile that you demonstrated. [Man speaks in Arabic, handing Yinsen a picture of the Jericho missile.] This one.

Tony Stark: I refuse. [Tony then is shown with his head in a large thing of water. Flashes of himself and the electromagnet in his chest are shown.]

Pepper Potts: Tony! [As a voice in his head as he tries not to drown.]

[The men pull him out, put a bag over his head, and escort him out of the cave. Tony sees a lot of men, tents, and his guns. The same man speaking Arabic before speaks again.]

Yinsen: He wants to know what you think.

Tony Stark: I think you got a lot of my weapons.

[Yinsen translates Tony's words into Arabic. The same man speaking Arabic responds]

Yinsen: He says they have everything you need to build the Jericho missile. He wants you to make the list of materials. [Man speaks Arabic again] He says for you to start working immediately, and when you're done, he will set you free.

Tony Stark: No, he won't. [Shaking the Arabic man's hand with a sarcastic smile.]

Yinsen: No, he won't. [Smiling as well.]

Yinsen: [Sitting around a small fire in the cave with Tony] I'm sure they're looking for you, Stark. But they will never find you in these mountains. Look, what you just saw, that is your legacy, Stark. Your life's work, in the hands of those murderers. Is that how you want to go out? Is this the last act of defiance of the great Tony Stark? Or are you going to do something about it?

Tony Stark: Why should I do anything? They're going to kill me, you, either way. And if they don't, I'll probably be dead in a week.

Yinsen: Well, then, this is a very important week for you, isn't it? Hm?

Tony Stark: [Directing the men to where to put things while Yinsen's translating] If this is going to be my workstation, I want it well-lit. I want these up. I need welding gear. I don't care if it's acetylene or propane. I need a soldering station. I need helmets. I'm gonna need goggles. I would like a smelting cup. I need two sets of precision tools. [Yinsen and Tony start taking apart the weapons.] How many languages do you speak?

Yinsen: A lot. But apparently, not enough for this place. They speak Arabic, Urdu, Dari, Pashto, Mongolian, Farsi, Russian.

Tony Stark: Who are these people?

Yinsen: They are your loyal customers, sir. They call themselves the Ten Rings. [The men of the Ten Rings are shown watching Tony and Yinsen work on a TV.] You know, we might be more productive if you include me in the planning process.

Tony Stark: Uh-huh. [Tony pulls apart a missile.] Okay, we don't need this.

Yinsen: What is that?

Tony Stark: That's palladium, 0.15 grams. We need at least 1.6, so why don't you go break down the other 11?

Man #1: What's he doing? [speaking Arabic]

Man #2: Working. [speaking Arabic]

[Tony and Yinsen working on something. Yinsen is pulling something out of the fire.]

Tony Stark: Careful. Careful, we only get one shot at this.

Yinsen: Relax. I have steady hands. Why do you think you're still alive?

Tony Stark: What do I call you?

Yinsen: My name is Yinsen.

Tony Stark: Yinsen. Nice to meet you.

Yinsen: Nice to meet you, too. [Tony puts together a device while Yinsen watches.] Whoa. That doesn't look like a Jericho missile.

Tony Stark: That's because it's a miniaturized arc reactor. I got a big one powering my factory at home. It should keep the shrapnel out of my heart.

Yinsen: But what could it generate?

Tony Stark: If my math is right, and it always is, three gigajoules per second.

Yinsen: That could run your heart for 50 lifetimes.

Tony Stark: Yeah. Or something big for 15 minutes.

Tony Stark: [Looking at sheets of paper with Tony] This is our ticket out of here.

Yinsen: What is it?

Tony Stark: Flatten them out and look. [Yinsen flattens the sheets out to see a drawing of a metal suit.]

Yinsen: Oh, wow. Impressive.

[Security footage shows that the arc reactor was successfully put in Tony, allowing him more freedom of movement without having to carry the car battery around.]

[Tony and Yinsen playing a game.]

Yinsen: Good. Good roll. Good roll.

Tony Stark: You still haven't told me where you're from.

Yinsen: I'm from a small town called Gulmira. It's actually a nice place.

Tony Stark: Got a family?

Yinsen: Yes, and I will see them when I leave here. And you, Stark?

Tony Stark: No.

Yinsen: No? So you're a man who has everything and nothing.

[The men of the Ten Rings come to the door, armed. They open the hatch to see Tony and Yinsen working before turning around and leaving. Shows Tony welding metal together, while the Ten Rings watch the cameras and compare what he's creating with the Jericho picture.]

Man #1: It doesn't look anything like the picture. [Speaking Arabic]

Man #2: Maybe it's been modified. [Speaking Arabic]

Man #1: The tail is wrong. [Speaking Arabic]

Man #2: It's just backwards. [Speaking Arabic]

[The head of the Ten Rings, Raza, watches Tony and Yinsen test out one of the legs of the suit. He and his men go visit Tony and Yinsen.]

Raza: Relax. [Motioning for the two men to remove their hands from above their heads. They do so as Raza comes up and inspects Tony's arc reactor.] The bow and arrow once was the pinnacle of weapons technology. It allowed the great Genghis Khan to rule from the Pacific to the Ukraine. An empire twice the size of Alexander the Great and four times the size of the Roman Empire. But today, whoever holds the latest Stark weapons rules these lands. And soon, it will be my turn. [Starts speaking in Urdu as he stares down Tony.] Why have you failed me?

Yinsen: We're working. Diligently. [Speaking in Urdu.]

Raza: [Turns and walks toward Yinsen.] I let you live. This is how you repay me? [Speaking in Urdu.]

Yinsen: It's very complex. He's trying very hard. [Speaking in Urdu.]

Raza: On his knees. [He commands his men in Urdu. Yinsen is forced to his knees.] You think I'm a fool? I'll get the truth. [Speaking in Urdu as he takes a coal from the dying fire.]

Yinsen: We're both working. [Speaking in Urdu.]

Raza: Open your mouth. [Speaking in Urdu.]

Tony Stark: What does he want?

Raza: You think I'm a fool? What's going on? Tell me the truth. [Speaking in Urdu. Raza forces Yinsen's head to lay on the table.]

Yinsen: He's building your Jericho. He's building your Jericho. [Speaking in Urdu.]

Tony Stark: What do you want? A delivery date? [Tony tries to go towards Raza and Yinsen but the other men pull their guns on him.] I need him. Good assistant.

Raza: You have till tomorrow to assemble my missile.

[Tony is shown hammering the helmet of the suit to shape it. He cools it in water before setting on the table in front of Yinsen. Tony is shown wrapping his hands up and Yinsen lifting the suit up. Yinsen helps Tony suit up.]

Yinsen: Okay? Can you move? Okay, say it again.

Tony Stark: 41 steps straight ahead. Then 16 steps, that's from the door, fork right, 33 steps, turn right.

[Raza notices on the security screens that Stark cannot be seen.]

Raza: Where is Stark? [Speaking Arabic]

Man: He was here a moment ago. [Speaking Arabic]

Raza: Go look for him. [Speaking Arabic]

[The men rush to the cell.]

Man: Yinsen! Yinsen! Stark!

Tony Stark: Say something. Say something back to him.

Yinsen: He's speaking Hungarian. I don't...

Tony Stark: Then speak Hungarian.

Yinsen: Okay. I know.

Tony Stark: What do you know?

[The men are shouting through the door while Yinsen is shouting something back at them. The door is shown to have an explosive on it. The men try to open the door, only for it to explode. Raza watches this all on camera and orders his men down there.]

Tony Stark: How'd that work?

Yinsen: Oh, my goodness. It worked all right.

Tony Stark: That's what I do.

Yinsen: Let me finish this.

Tony Stark: Initialize the power sequence.

Yinsen: Okay.

Tony Stark: Now!

Yinsen: Tell me. Tell me.

Tony Stark: Function 11. Tell me when you see a progress bar. It should be up right now.

Yinsen: Yes.

Tony Stark: Talk to me. Tell me when you see it.

Yinsen: I have it.

Tony Stark: Press Control "l".

Yinsen: "I."

Tony Stark: "I." "Enter."

Yinsen: Got it.

Tony Stark: "l" and "Enter." Come over here and button me up.

Yinsen: Okay. All right.

Tony Stark: Every other hex bolt.

Yinsen: They're coming!

Tony Stark: Nothing pretty, just get it done. Just get it done.

Yinsen: They're coming.

Tony Stark: Make sure the checkpoints are clear before you follow me out, okay?

Yinsen: We need more time. Hey, I'm gonna go buy you some time.

Tony Stark: Stick to the plan! Stick to the plan! [Yinsen runs out of the cave with a gun from one of the dead men.] Yinsen! Yinsen!

[Tony watches the progress bar move while Yinsen aimlessly shoots the cave walls as he runs, scarring the men. Yinsen is stopped when he reaches the mouth of the cave and a group of men. The progress bar finishes loading, causing the lights to dim, and the suit to be powered. More men arrive in the cave to get Tony. Tony attacks them using the suit. On his way out of the cave, he attacks more of the men. Raza waits at the mouth of the cave. Tony arrives to see Yinsen has been shot.]

Tony Stark: Yinsen!

Yinsen: Watch out! [Raza tries to shoot at Tony but misses. Tony shoots back, hitting the wall behind Raza, causing a mini explosion and knocking Raza out.] Stark.

Tony Stark: Come on. [Tony opens is helmet.] We got to go. Move for me, come on. We got a plan. We're gonna stick to it.

Yinsen: This was always the plan, Stark.

Tony Stark: Come on, you're gonna go see your family. Get up.

Yinsen: My family is dead. I'm going to see them now, Stark. It's okay. I want this. I want this.

Tony Stark: Thank you for saving me.

Yinsen: Don't waste it. Don't waste your life.

[Yinsen dies. Tony turns angry. There are men waiting outside of the mouth of the cave. They all shoot at Tony in the suit, but don't do any damage.]

Tony Stark: My turn. [Tony shoots fire at the men and their camp from his suit. The men continue to shoot at Tony, beginning to cause damage to the suit. Tony flips a suit and shoots up in the air. He screams as he falls into the sand on the other side of the mountains. The suit breaks when he lands.] Not bad.

[Tony then is seen wondering through the desert, exhausted. Military helicopters fly up from behind him.]

Tony Stark: Hey! [Waving down the helicopters.] Hey!

[As one of the helicopters lands, Tony collapses to his knees, holding up a peace sign. Rhodey and a few men are seen running up to Tony from the helicopter.]

James Rhodes: How was the "fun-vee"? Next time, you ride with me, okay?

[California Military Base where a giant plane has just landed. Medical, Happy, and Pepper are waiting there. The ramp lowers and Rhodey helps Tony down.]

James Rhodes: Watch it, coming up here.

Tony Stark: Are you kidding me with this? Get rid of them. [Tony walks up to Pepper.] Your eyes are red. A few tears for your long-lost boss?

Pepper Potts: Tears of joy. I hate job hunting.

Tony Stark: Yeah, vacation's over.

[Tony, Pepper, and Happy get into the car.]

Happy: Where to, sir?

Pepper Potts: Take us to the hospital, please, Happy.

Tony Stark: No.

Pepper Potts: No? Tony, you have to go to the hospital.

Tony Stark: No is a complete answer.

Pepper Potts: The doctor has to look at you.

Tony Stark: I don't have to do anything. I've been in captivity for three months. There are two things I want to do. I want an American cheeseburger, and the other...

Pepper Potts: That's enough of that.

Tony Stark: ...is not what you think. I want you to call for a press conference now.

Pepper Potts: Call for a press conference?

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Pepper Potts: What on earth for?

Tony Stark: Hogan, drive. Cheeseburger first.

[Happy driving them up to Stark Industries HQ, where Obadiah is waiting with the press and their employees.]

Obadiah Stane: Look at this! Tony. We were going to meet at the hospital.

Tony Stark: No, I'm fine.

Obadiah Stane: Look at you! You had to have a burger, yeah?

Tony Stark: Well, come on.

Obadiah Stane: You get me one of those?

Tony Stark: There's only one left. I need it.

Obadiah Stane: Hey, look who's here! Yeah!

Agent Coulson: Miss Potts?

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Agent Coulson: Can I speak to you for a moment?

Pepper Potts: I'm not part of the press conference, but it's about to begin right now.

Agent Coulson: I'm not a reporter. I'm Agent Phil Coulson, with the Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics Division.

Pepper Potts: That's quite a mouthful.

Agent Coulson: I know. We're working on it.

Pepper Potts: You know, we've been approached already by the DOD, the FBI, the CIA...

Agent Coulson: We're a separate division with a more specific focus. We need to debrief Mr. Stark about the circumstances of his escape.

Pepper Potts: I'll put something in the book, shall I?

Agent Coulson: Thank you.

Obadiah Stane: Well, let's get this started, uh...

Tony Stark: Hey, would it be all right if everyone sat down? [Sitting in front of the podium.] Why don't you just sit down? That way you can see me, and I can... A little less formal and... [Tony takes a bite of his cheeseburger as everyone sits, or squats, down]

James Rhodes: What's up with the love-in?

Pepper Potts: Don't look at me. I don't know what he's up to.

Tony Stark: Good to see you.

Obadiah Stane: Good to see you.

Tony Stark: I never got to say goodbye to Dad. I never got to say goodbye to my father. There's questions that I would have asked him. I would have asked him how he felt about what this company did. If he was conflicted, if he ever had doubts. Or maybe he was every inch the man we all remember from the newsreels. I saw young Americans killed by the very weapons I created to defend them and protect them. And I saw that I had become part of a system that is comfortable with zero accountability.

Reporters: Mr. Stark!

Tony Stark: Hey, Ben.

Reporter (Ben): What happened over there?

Tony Stark: I had my eyes opened. [Tony stands and moves behind the podium.] I came to realize that I have more to offer this world than just making things that blow up. And that is why, effective immediately, I am shutting down the weapons manufacturing division of Stark International [Everyone stands up in commotion.] until such a time as I can decide what the future of the company will be.

Obadiah Stane: I think we're gonna be selling a lot of newspapers. [Standing up beside Tony.]

Tony Stark: What direction it should take, one that I'm comfortable with and is consistent with the highest good for this country, as well. [Tony leaves the stage.]

Obadiah Stane: What we should take away from this is that Tony's back! And he's healthier than ever. We're going to have a little internal discussion and we'll get back to you with the follow-up. [Obadiah is shown on a Segway, riding up to one of the Stark buildings. Happy leaning against a car outside.] Where is he?

Happy: He's inside.

[Obadiah goes inside to find Tony looking at the giant arc reactor.]

Obadiah Stane: Well, that..uh... That went well.

Tony Stark: Did I just paint a target on the back of my head?

Obadiah Stane: Your head? What about my head? What do you think the over-under on the stock drop is gonna be tomorrow?

Tony Stark: Uh, optimistically, 40 points.

Obadiah Stane: At minimum.

Tony Stark: Yep.

Obadiah Stane: Tony, we're a weapons manufacturer.

Tony Stark: Obie, I just don't want a body count to be our only legacy.

Obadiah Stane: That's what we do. We're iron mongers. We make weapons.

Tony Stark: It's my name on the side of the building.

Obadiah Stane: And what we do keeps the world from falling into chaos.

Tony Stark: Not based on what I saw. We're not doing a good enough job. We can do better. We're gonna do something else.

Obadiah Stane: Like what? You want us to make baby bottles?

Tony Stark: I think we should take another look into arc reactor technology.

Obadiah Stane: Ah, come on. The arc reactor, that's a publicity stunt! Tony, come on. We built that thing to shut the hippies up.

Tony Stark: It works.

Obadiah Stane: Yeah, as a science project. The arc was never cost effective. We knew that before we built it. Arc reactor technology, that's a dead end, right?

Tony Stark: Maybe.

Obadiah Stane: Huh? Am I right? We haven't had a breakthrough in that in what? Thirty years.

Tony Stark: That's what they say. Could you have a lousier poker face? Just tell me, who told you?

Obadiah Stane: Never mind who told me. Show me.

Tony Stark: It's Rhodey or Pepper.

Obadiah Stane: I want to see it.

Tony Stark: Okay, Rhodey. [Tony opens his shirt to show Obadiah the reactor in his chest.]

Obadiah Stane: Okay. [Obadiah begins to button Tony's shirt back up.]

Tony Stark: Okay? It works.

Obadiah Stane: Listen to me, Tony. We're a team. Do you understand? There's nothing we can't do if we stick together, like your father and I.

Tony Stark: I'm sorry I didn't give you a heads-up, okay? But if I had...

Obadiah Stane: Tony. Tony, no more of this "ready, fire, aim" business. You understand me?

Tony Stark: That was Dad's line.

Obadiah Stane: You gotta let me handle this. We're gonna have to play a whole different kind of ball now. We're going to have to take a lot of heat. I want you to promise me that you're gonna lay low.

[Stark Mansion, where Pepper is watching the news.]

Newcaster: Stark Industries! I've got one recommendation! Ready? Ready? Sell, sell, sell! Abandon ship! Does the Hindenburg ring any bells? Let me show you the new Stark Industries business plan! Look, that's a weapons company that doesn't make weapons!

Tony Stark: [Over the intercoms] Pepper. How big are your hands?

Pepper Potts: What?

Tony Stark: How big are your hands?

Pepper Potts: I don't understand why...

Tony Stark: Get down here. I need you. [Pepper enters Tony's workshop to find Tony lying shirtless on a chair.] Hey. Let's see them. Show me your hands. Let's see them. [Pepper holds up her hands as she comes closer.] Oh, wow. They are small. Very petite, indeed. I just uh.. need your help for a sec.

Pepper Potts: Oh, my God, is that the thing that's keeping you alive?

Tony Stark: It was. It is now an antique. This is what will be keeping me alive for the foreseeable future. I'm swapping it up for an upgraded unit, and I just ran into a little speed bump.

Pepper Potts: Speed bump, what does that mean?

Tony Stark: It's nothing. It's just a little snag. There's an exposed wire under this device. And it's contacting the socket wall and causing a little bit of a short. It's fine. [Tony pulls out the old device, handing it to Pepper.]

Pepper Potts: What do you want me to do?

Tony Stark: Put that on the table over there. That is irrelevant.

Pepper Potts: Oh, my God! [Setting the old reactor on the table.]

Tony Stark: I want you to reach in, and you're just gonna gently lift the wire out.

Pepper Potts: Is it safe?

Tony Stark: Yeah, it should be fine. It's like Operation. You just don't let it touch the socket wall or it goes "beep."

Pepper Potts: What do you mean, "Operation"?

Tony Stark: It's just a game, never mind. Just gently lift the wire.

Pepper Potts: Okay.

Tony Stark: Okay? Great.

Pepper Potts: You know, I don't think that I'm qualified to do this.

Tony Stark: No, you're fine. You're the most capable, qualified, trustworthy person I've ever met. You're gonna do great. Is it too much of a problem to ask? 'Cause I'm...

Pepper Potts: Okay, okay.

Tony Stark: I really need your help here.

Pepper Potts: Okay. [Slides her hand into the hole in Tony's chest.] Oh, there's pus!

Tony Stark: It's not pus. It's an inorganic plasmic discharge from the device, not from my body.

Pepper Potts: It smells!

Tony Stark: Yeah, it does. The copper wire. The copper wire, you got it?

Pepper Potts: Okay, I got it! I got it!

Tony Stark: Okay, you got it? Now, don't let it touch [Pepper lets it touch the side.] the sides when you're coming out!

Pepper Potts: I'm sorry. I'm sorry.

Tony Stark: That's what I was trying to tell you before. Okay, now make sure that when you pull it out, that you don't... [Pepper pulls out the wire with the magnet attached and the medical equipment starts beeping.] There's a magnet at the end of it! That was it. You just pulled it out.

Pepper Potts: Oh, God!

Tony Stark: Okay, I was not expecting...

Pepper Potts: Okay, what do I do?

Tony Stark: Don't put it back in! Don't put it back in!

Pepper Potts: What's wrong?

Tony Stark: Nothing, I'm just going into cardiac arrest--

Pepper Potts: What? You said it was safe!

Tony Stark: 'cause you yanked it out like a trout... We gotta hurry. Take this. Take this. You gotta switch it out really quick.

Pepper Potts: Okay. Okay. Tony?

Tony Stark: What?

Pepper Potts: It's going to be okay. Okay?

Tony Stark: Is it?

Pepper Potts: It's gonna be okay. I'm gonna make this okay.

Tony Stark: Let's hope. Okay, you're gonna attach that to the base plate. Make s-sure you... [Screams went it attaches.] Was that so hard? That was fun, right? Here, I got it. I got it. Here. Nice.

Pepper Potts: Are you okay?

Tony Stark: Yeah, I feel great. You okay?

Pepper Potts: Don't ever, ever, ever, ever ask me to do anything like that ever again.

Tony Stark: I don't have anyone but you. Anyway... [Tony rips on the wires off and stands up.]

Pepper Potts: What do you want me to do with this? [Holding Tony's old reactor.]

Tony Stark: That? Destroy it. Incinerate it.

Pepper Potts: You don't want to keep it?

Tony Stark: Pepper, I've been called many things. "Nostalgic" is not one of them.

Pepper Potts: Will that be all, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: That will be all, Miss Potts. [Turns to talk to his robot while he eyes Pepper as she walks away.] Hey, Butterfingers, come here. What's all this stuff doing on top of my desk? That's my phone, that's a picture of me and my dad. Right there. In the garbage. All that stuff.

[Air Force Base where Rhodes is guiding a group of people through the hanger.]

James Rhodes: The future of air combat. Is it manned or unmanned? I'll tell you, in my experience, no unmanned aerial vehicle will ever trump a pilot's instinct, his insight, that ability to look into a situation beyond the obvious and discern its outcome, or a pilot's judgment.

Tony Stark: Colonel? Why not a pilot without the plane?

James Rhodes: Look who fell out of the sky. Mr. Tony Stark.

Man: Hello, sir.

Tony Stark: Speaking of manned or unmanned, you gotta get him to tell you about the time he guessed wrong at spring break. Just remember that, spring break, 1987. That lovely lady you woke up with.

James Rhodes: Don't do that!

Tony Stark: What was his name?

James Rhodes: Don't do that.

Tony Stark: Was it Ivan?

James Rhodes: Don't do that. They'll believe it.

Tony Stark: Okay.

James Rhodes: Don't do that.

Tony Stark: Okay.

James Rhodes: Don't do that.

Tony Stark: Pleasure meeting you.

James Rhodes: Give us a couple minutes, you guys. [The group walks off.] I'm surprised.

Tony Stark: Why?

James Rhodes: I swear, I didn't expect to see you walking around so soon.

Tony Stark: I'm doing a little better than walking.

James Rhodes: Really?

Tony Stark: Yeah. Rhodey, I'm working on something big. I came to talk to you. I want you to be a part of it.

James Rhodes: You're about to make a whole lot of people around here real happy, 'cause that little stunt at the press conference, that was a doozy.

Tony Stark: This is not for the military. I'm not... It's different.

James Rhodes: What? You're a humanitarian now or something?

Tony Stark: I need you to listen to me.

James Rhodes: No. What you need is time to get your mind right. I'm serious.

Tony Stark: Okay.

James Rhodes: It's nice seeing you, Tony. [Rhodey walks off.]

Tony Stark: Thanks.

[Tony in his workshop, working on his computer and hologram table.]

Tony Stark: JARVIS, you up?

JARVIS: For you, sir, always.

Tony Stark: I'd like to open a new project file, index as Mark Two.

JARVIS: Shall I store this on the Stark Industries Central Database?

Tony Stark: Actually, I don't know who to trust right now. Till further notice, why don't we just keep everything on my private server?

JARVIS: Working on a secret project, are we, sir?

Tony Stark: I don't want this winding up in the wrong hands. Maybe in mine, it can actually do some good.

[men from the Ten Rings searching the desert for Tony's suit. Shows that part of Raza's face was burned]

[Tony working on a boot for the new suit in his workshop. His robot, Dummy, is assisting him.]

Tony Stark: Next. Up. Not in the boot, Dummy. Right here. You got me? Stay put. Nice. You're of no benefit at all. Move down to the toe. I got this. Okay, I'm sorry, am I in your way? Up. Screw it. Don't even move. You are a tragedy.

[Tony wearing the boots in his workshop for a test flight. One of the robots is filming it, while Dummy is in charge of the fire extinguisher.]

Tony Stark: Okay, let's do this right. Start mark, half a meter, and back and center. Dummy, look alive. You're on standby for fire safety. You, roll it. Okay. Activate hand controls. We're gonna start off nice and easy. We're gonna see if 10% thrust capacity achieves lift. And three, two, one.

[Tony immediately flings back and hits the upper wall. Dummy uses the fire extinguisher on him. Tony is then seen working on flight stabilizers for his hands/arms. While he's working, Pepper comes in with a wrapped box and a cup of something.]

Tony Stark: Up two. All right, set that.

Pepper Potts: I've been buzzing you. Did you hear the intercom?

Tony Stark: Yeah, everything's... What? [Still distracted with the flight stabilizer.]

Pepper Potts: Obadiah's upstairs.

Tony Stark: Great!

Pepper Potts: What would you like me to tell him?

Tony Stark: Great. I'll be right up.

Pepper Potts: Okay. I thought you said you were done making weapons.

Tony Stark: It is. This is a flight stabilizer. It's completely harmless. [The stabilizer shoots, flinging Tony backwards and scaring Pepper.] I didn't expect that. [Tony then comes up stairs to find Obadiah playing the piano and Pepper working on the couch.] How'd it go? It went that bad, huh?

Obadiah Stane: Just because I brought pizza back from New York doesn't mean it went bad. [Still playing the piano.]

Tony Stark: Sure doesn't. Oh, boy.

Obadiah Stane: It would have gone better if you were there.

Tony Stark: Uh-huh. You told me to lay low. That's what I've been doing. I lay low, and you take care of all...

Obadiah Stane: Hey, come on. In public. The press. [Comes over to sit next to Tony.] This was a board of directors meeting.

Tony Stark: This was a board of directors meeting?

Obadiah Stane: The board is claiming you have post-traumatic stress. They're filing an injunction.

Tony Stark: A what?

Obadiah Stane: They want to lock you out.

Tony Stark: Why, 'cause the stocks dipped 40 points? We knew that was gonna happen.

Pepper Potts: Fifty-six and a half.

Tony Stark: It doesn't matter. We own the controlling interest in the company.

Obadiah Stane: Tony, the board has rights, too. They're making the case that you and your new direction isn't in the company's best interest.

Tony Stark: I'm being responsible! That's a new direction for me, for the company. I mean, me on the company's behalf being responsible for the way that... This is great. [Tony stands up, taking the pizza box with him. Obadiah follows.]

Obadiah Stane: Oh, come on. Tony. Tony.

Tony Stark: I'll be in the shop.

Obadiah Stane: Hey, hey! Hey, Tony. Listen. I'm trying to turn this thing around, but you gotta give me something. Something to pitch them. Let me have the engineers analyze that. You know, draw up some specs.

Tony Stark: No. No, absolutely not.

Obadiah Stane: It'll give me a bone to throw the boys in New York!

Tony Stark: This one stays with me. That's it, Obie. Forget it.

Obadiah Stane: All right, well, this stays with me, then. [Obadiah takes the pizza box back.] Go on, here, you can have a piece. Take two.

Tony Stark: Thank you.

Obadiah Stane: You mind if I come down there and see what you're doing?

Tony Stark: Good night, Obie. [Tony heads back down to his workshop]

Tony Stark: [running another flight test, this time wearing the boots and hand flight stabilizers] Day 11, test 37, configuration 2.0. For lack of a better option, Dummy is still on fire safety. If you douse me again, and I'm not on fire, I'm donating you to a city college. All right, nice and easy. Seriously, just gonna start off with 1% thrust capacity. And three, two, one. [Lifts off the ground and hovers for a bit before landing.] Okay. Please don't follow me around with it, either, 'cause I feel like I'm gonna catch on fire spontaneously. Just stand down! If something happens, then come in. And again, let's bring it up to 2.5. Three, two, one. [Lifts off the ground with less control and starts hovering all over the workshop.] Okay, this is where I don't want to be! Not the car, not the car! Table! Could be worse! Could be worse! We're fine! Okay. [Lands where he started. Dummy goes to use the fire extinguisher.] No! Uh-uh! Uh-uh! Yeah, I can fly.

[Tony fully suiting up in the Mark II.]

Tony Stark: JARVIS, are you there?

JARVIS: At your service, sir.

Tony Stark: Engage heads-up display.

JARVIS: Check.

Tony Stark: Import all preferences from home interface.

JARVIS: Will do, sir.

Tony Stark: All right, what do you say?

JARVIS: I have indeed been uploaded, sir. We're online and ready.

Tony Stark: Can we start the virtual walk-around?

JARVIS: Importing preferences and calibrating virtual environment.

Tony Stark: Do a check on control surfaces

JARVIS: As you wish. [The full suit is shown.] Test complete. Preparing to power down and begin diagnostics.

Tony Stark: Uh, yeah. Tell you what. Do a weather and ATC check. Start listening in on ground control.

JARVIS: Sir, there are still terabytes of calculations needed before an actual flight is...

Tony Stark: JARVIS! Sometimes you got to run before you can walk. Ready? In three, two, one. [Begins hovering and flies out of the garage into the sky.] Handles like a dream. All right, let's see what this thing can do. What's SR-71's record?

JARVIS: The altitude record for fixed wing flight is 85,000 feet, sir.

Tony Stark: Records are made to be broken! Come on! [Begins flying straight up.]

JARVIS: Sir, there is a potentially fatal buildup of ice occurring.

Tony Stark: Keep going! Higher! [Ice builds up around the suit, causing it to stop working and him to start flying from the sky.] We iced up, JARVIS! Deploy flaps! JARVIS! Come on, we got to break the ice!

[Tony manually gets the flaps up. The power starts just it time before he crashes into traffic. He heads back to the mansion and hovers above it, hoping to safely land on the roof.]

Tony Stark: Kill power.

[Power is killed and Tony falls through the roof, the piano, and down into his workshop, landing on top of a car. Dummy uses the fire extinguisher on him]

[Tony out of the suit, walking around the workshop with an ice pack on his head. He picks up the cup that Pepper left earlier and notices the package she left. On top, it has a sticky note saying 'from Pepper'. He takes it off and opens the package.]

Tony Stark: Notes. Main transducer feels sluggish at plus 40 altitude. Hull pressurization is problematic. I'm thinking icing is the probable factor.

JARVIS: A very astute observation, sir. Perhaps, if you intend to visit other planets, we should improve the exosystems.

Tony Stark: Connect to the sys. co. Have it reconfigure the shell metals. Use the gold titanium alloy from the seraphim tactical satellite. That should ensure a fuselage integrity while maintaining power-to-weight ratio. Got it?

JARVIS: Yes. Shall I render using proposed specifications?

Tony Stark: Thrill me.

TV Reporter: Tonight's red-hot red carpet is right here at the Disney Concert Hall, where Tony Stark's third annual benefit for the Firefighter's Family Fund has become the place to be for L.A.'s high society.

Tony Stark: JARVIS, we get an invite for that?

JARVIS: I have no record of an invitation, sir.

TV Reporter: ... hasn't been seen in public since his bizarre and highly controversial press conference. Some claim he's suffering from post traumatic stress and has been bedridden for weeks. Whatever the case may be, no one expects an appearance from him tonight.

JARVIS: The render is complete.

Tony Stark: A little ostentatious, don't you think?

JARVIS: What was I thinking? You're usually so discreet.

Tony Stark: Tell you what. Throw a little hot-rod red in there.

JARVIS: Yes, that should help you keep a low profile. The render is complete.

Tony Stark: Hey, I like it. Fabricate it. Paint it.

JARVIS: Commencing automated assembly. Estimated completion time is five hours.

Tony Stark: Don't wait up for me, honey.

Obadiah Stane: Weapons manufacturing is only one small part of what Stark Industries is all about, and our partnership with the fire and rescue community...

Random Woman: Hey, Tony, remember me?

Tony Stark: Sure don't. You look great, Hef.

Obadiah Stane: We're going to have a great quarter.

Tony Stark: What's the world coming to when a guy's got to crash his own party?

Obadiah Stane: Look at you. Hey, what a surprise.

Tony Stark: I'll see you inside.

Obadiah Stane: Hey. Listen, take it slow, all right? I think I got the board right where we want them

Tony Stark: You got it. Just cabin fever. I'll just be a minute. Give me a Scotch. I'm starving.

Agent Coulson: Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: Yeah?

Agent Coulson: Agent Coulson.

Tony Stark: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. The guy from the..

Agent Coulson: Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics Division.

Tony Stark: God, you need a new name for that.

Agent Coulson: Yeah, I hear that a lot. Listen, I know this must be a trying time for you, but we need to debrief you. There's still a lot of unanswered questions, and time can be a factor with these things.

Tony Stark: Let's just put something on the books.

Agent Coulson: How about the 24th at 7:00 p.m. at Stark Industries?

Tony Stark: Tell you what. You got it. You're absolutely right. Well, I'm going to go to my assistant, and we'll make a date. You look fantastic! I didn't recognize you.

Pepper Potts: What are you doing here?

Tony Stark: Just avoiding government agents.

Pepper Potts: Are you by yourself?

Tony Stark: Yes. Where'd you get that dress?

Pepper Potts: Oh, it was a birthday present.

Tony Stark: That's great.

Pepper Potts: From you, actually.

Tony Stark: Well, I got great taste.

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Tony Stark: You want to dance?

Pepper Potts: Oh, no.

Tony Stark: All right, come on.

Pepper Potts: Thank you. No.

Tony Stark: Am I making you uncomfortable?

Pepper Potts: No. No. I always forget to wear deodorant and dance with my boss in front of everyone that I work with in a dress with no back.

Tony Stark: You look great and you smell great.

Pepper Potts: Oh, God.

Tony Stark: But I could fire you if that would take the edge off.

Pepper Potts: I actually don't think that you could tie your shoes without me.

Tony Stark: I'd make it a week. Sure.

Pepper Potts: Really? What's your Social Security number?

Tony Stark: Five.

Pepper Potts: Five?

Tony Stark: Right.

Pepper Potts: Right. You're missing just a couple of digits there.

Tony Stark: The other eight? So, I got you for the other eight. How about a little air?

Pepper Potts: Yes, I need some air. That was totally weird.

Tony Stark: Totally harmless.

Pepper Potts: It was totally not harmless, by the way.

Tony Stark: We're dancing. No one's even watching.

Pepper Potts: Everybody who I work with... No, you know why?

Tony Stark: I think you lost objectivity. I think they just... People... We just danced.

Pepper Potts: No, it was not just a dance. You don't understand because you're you. And everybody knows exactly who you are and how you are with girls and all of that, which is completely fine. But, you know, then me, you're my boss, and I'm dancing with you.

Tony Stark: I don't think it was taken that way.

Pepper Potts: Because it makes me look like the one who's trying to...

Tony Stark: I just think you're overstating it.

Pepper Potts: You know, and we're here, and then I'm wearing this ridiculous dress, and then we were dancing like that and... I would like a drink, please.

Tony Stark: Got it, okay.

Pepper Potts: I would like a vodka martini, please.

Tony Stark: Okay.

Pepper Potts: Very dry with olives, a lot of olives. Like, at least three olives.

Tony Stark: Two vodka martinis, extra dry, extra olives, extra fast. Make one of them dirty, will you?

Christine Everhart: Wow. Tony Stark.

Tony Stark: Oh, hey.

Christine Everhart: Fancy seeing you here.

Tony Stark: Carrie.

Christine Everhart: Christine.

Tony Stark: That's right.

Christine Everhart: You have a lot of nerve showing up here tonight. Can I at least get a reaction from you?

Tony Stark: Panic. I would say panic is my reaction.

Christine Everhart: 'Cause I was referring to your company's involvement in this latest atrocity

Tony Stark: Yeah. They just put my name on the invitation. I don't know what to tell you.

Christine Everhart: I actually almost bought it, hook, line and sinker.

Tony Stark: I was out of town for a couple months, in case you didn't hear.

Christine Everhart: Is this what you call accountability? It's a town called Gulmira. Heard of it?

Tony Stark: When were these taken?

Christine Everhart: Yesterday.

Tony Stark: I didn't approve any shipment.

Christine Everhart: Well, your company did.

Tony Stark: Well, I'm not my company.

Obadiah Stane: Please, do you mind?

Tony Stark: Have you seen these pictures? What's going on in Gulmira?

Obadiah Stane: Tony, Tony. You can't afford to be this naive.

Tony Stark: You know what? I was naive before, when they said, "Here's the line. We don't cross it. This is how we do business." If we're double-dealing under the table... Are we?

Reporter: Tony, your picture, please!

Obadiah Stane: Let's take a picture. Come on. Picture time! Tony. Who do you think locked you out? I was the one who filed the injunction against you. It was the only way I could protect you.

Obadiah Stane: No. No.

TV Reporter: The 15-mile hike to the outskirts of Gulmira can only be described as a descent into hell, into a modern-day Heart of Darkness. Simple farmers and herders from peaceful villages have been driven from their homes, displaced from their lands by warlords emboldened by a new-found power. Villagers have been forced to take shelter in whatever crude dwellings they can find in the ruins of other villages, or here in the remnants of an old Soviet smelting plant. Recent violence has been attributed to a group of foreign fighters referred to by locals as the Ten Rings. As you can see, these men are heavily armed and on a mission. A mission that could prove fatal to anyone who stands in their way. With no political will or international pressure, there's very little hope for these refugees. Around me, a woman begging for news on her husband, who was kidnapped by insurgents, either forced to join their militia. Desperate refugees clutch yellowed photographs, holding them up to anyone who will stop. A child's simple question, "Where are my mother and father?" There's very little hope for these refugees, refugees who can only wonder who, if anyone, will help.

Tony Stark: He's all yours.

Captain: What the hell was that? Were we cleared to go in there?

CAOC Analyst #1: No sir, they were using human shields. We never got the green light

Major Allen: Put me through to State. They're going to be all over this.

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Get those monitors up!

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): We got a bogey!

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Wasn't Air Force!

Major Allen: We got the CIA on the line?

Captain: I've got Langley on the line. They want to know if it's us.

CAOC Analyst #1: No, it definitely is not us, sir!

CAOC Analyst #2: It wasn't Navy.

CAOC Analyst #3: Wasn't Marines.

Major Allen: I need answers! Can I please get eyes on target?

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Negative, negative. Cannot identify.

Major Allen: Get me Colonel Rhodes from weapons development down here now!

Major Allen: We ran an ID check and cross-referenced with all known databases. We have nothing.

James Rhodes: Any high-altitude surveillance in the region?

Captain: We got an AWAC and a Global Hawk in the area.

James Rhodes: So, this thing just appeared out of nowhere? How come it didn't show up on the radar?

CAOC Analyst #1: Got a minimal radar cross-section, sir.

James Rhodes: Is it stealth?

CAOC Analyst #1: No, sir, it's tiny. We think it's an unmanned aerial vehicle.

Major Allen: Colonel, what are we dealing with here?

James Rhodes: Let me make a call.

Major Allen: Sergeant, clear a hole.

Tony Stark: Hello?

James Rhodes: Tony?

Tony Stark: Who's this?

James Rhodes: It's Rhodes.

Tony Stark: Sorry, hello?

James Rhodes: I said it's Rhodes.

Tony Stark: Speak up, please.

James Rhodes: What in the hell is that noise?

Tony Stark: Oh, yeah, I'm driving with the top down.

James Rhodes: Yeah, well, I need your help right now.

Tony Stark: It's funny how that works, huh?

James Rhodes: Yeah. Speaking of funny, we've got a weapons depot that was just blown up a few clicks from where you were being held captive.

Tony Stark: Well, that's a hot spot. Sounds like someone stepped in and did your job for you, huh?

James Rhodes: Why do you sound out of breath, Tony?

Tony Stark: I'm not, I was just jogging in the canyon.

James Rhodes: I thought you were driving.

Tony Stark: Right, I was driving to the canyon, where I'm going to jog.

James Rhodes: You sure you don't have any tech in that area I should know about?

Tony Stark: Nope!

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Bogey spotted!

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): Whiplash, come in hot.

James Rhodes: Okay, good, 'cause I'm staring at one right now, and it's about to be blown to kingdom come.

Tony Stark: That's my exit.

Pilot #1: Ballroom, this is Whiplash One. I've got the bogey in my sights.

James Rhodes: Whiplash One, what is it?

Pilot #1: I've got no idea.

Major Allen: You have radio contact?

Pilot #1: Non responsive, sir.

Major Allen: Then you are clear to engage.

Tony Stark: Hit it.

Pilot #1: That bogey just went supersonic. I got a lock!

JARVIS: Inbound missile.

Tony Stark: Flares!

Pilot #1: Wait a second. Bogey deployed flares!

Tony Stark: Deploy flaps!

Pilot #2: Holy!

CAOC Analyst (offscreen): That thing just jumped off the radar, sir.

CAOC Analyst #2: The sat visual has been lost.

Pilot #1: No way that's a UAV.

Major Allen: What is it?

Pilot #2: I can't see anything.

Pilot #1: Whatever it was, it just bought the farm. I think bogey's been handled, sir.

James Rhodes: Hello?

Tony Stark: Hi, Rhodey, it's me.

James Rhodes: It's who?

Tony Stark: I'm sorry, it is me. You asked. What you were asking about is me.

James Rhodes: No, see, this isn't a game. You do not send civilian equipment into my active war zone. You understand that?

Tony Stark: This is not a piece of equipment. I'm in it. It's a suit. It's me!

Major Allen: Rhodey, you got anything for me?

Major Allen: Mark your position and return to base.

Pilot #1: Roger that, Ballroom.

Pilot #1: On your belly! It looks like a man! Shake him off! Roll! Roll! I'm hit! I'm hit!

It's confirmed. He has been hit.

Pilot #2: Punch out! Punch out! Whiplash One down.

Whiplash Two, do you see a chute?

Pilot #2: Negative! No chute, no chute!

Pilot #1: My chute's jammed!

Pilot #2: Sir, I've got a visual on the bogey.

Major Allen: Whiplash Two, reengage. If you get a clear shot, you take it.

James Rhodes: Major, we don't even know what we're shooting at. Call off the Raptors.

Major Allen: That thing just took out an F-22 inside a legal no fly zone! Whiplash Two, if you have a clear shot, take it!

JARVIS: You've been reengaged. Execute evasive maneuver.

Tony Stark1: Keep going!

Pilot #2: Good chute! Good chute!

James Rhodes: Tony, you still there?

Tony Stark: Hey, thanks.

James Rhodes: Oh, my God, you crazy son of a bitch. You owe me a plane. You know that, right?

Tony Stark: Yeah, well, technically, he hit me. Now are you going to come by and see what I'm working on?

James Rhodes: No, no, no, no, no, no, the less I know, the better. Now, what am I supposed to tell the press?

Tony Stark: Training exercise. Isn't that the usual BS?

James Rhodes: It's not that simple. An unfortunate training exercise involving an F-22 Raptor occurred yesterday. I am pleased to report that the pilot was not injured. As for the unexpected turn of events on the ground in Gulmira, it is still unclear who or what intervened, but I can assure you that the United States government was not involved.

Tony Stark: Hey!

JARVIS: It is a tight fit, sir. Sir, the more you struggle, the more this is going to hurt.

Tony Stark: Be gentle. This is my first time. I designed this to come off, so... Hey. I really should be able to...

JARVIS: Please, try not to move, sir.

Pepper Potts: What's going on here?

Tony Stark: Let's face it. This is not the worst thing you've caught me doing.

Pepper Potts: Are those bullet holes?

Raza: Welcome. Compliments of Tony Stark.

Obadiah Stane: If you'd killed him when you were supposed to, you'd still have a face.

Raza: You paid us trinkets to kill a prince.

Obadiah Stane: Show me the weapon.

Raza: Come. Leave your guards outside. [Raza and Stane walk inside the tent] His escape bore unexpected fruit.

Obadiah Stane: So this is how he did it.

Raza: This is only a first, crude effort. Stark has perfected his design. He has made a masterpiece of death. A man with a dozen of these can rule all of Asia. And you dream of Stark's throne. We have a common enemy. If we are still in business, I will give you these designs... as a gift. And in turn, I hope you'll repay me with a gift of iron soldiers.

Obadiah Stane: Technology. [Stane uses a machine to stun Raza] It's always been your Achilles' heel in this part of the world. Don't worry. It'll only last for 15 minutes. That's the least of your problems. [Stane walks out of the tent] Crate up the armor and the rest of it. All right, let's finish up here.

Obadiah Stane: [Talking in the phone while in a car] Set up Sector 16 underneath the arc reactor, and I'm going to want this data masked. Recruit our top engineers. I want a prototype right away.

Tony Stark: Hey. You busy? You mind if I send you on an errand? I need you to go to my office. You're going to hack into the mainframe and you're going to retrieve all the recent shipping manifests. This is a lock chip. This'll get you in. It's probably under Executive Files. If not, they put it on a ghost drive, in which case you need to look for the lowest numeric heading.

Pepper Potts: And what do you plan to do with this information if I bring it back here?

Tony Stark: Same drill. They've been dealing under the table, and I'm going to stop them. I'm going to find my weapons and destroy them.

Pepper Potts: Tony, you know that I would help you with anything, but I cannot help you if you're going to start all of this again.

Tony Stark: There is nothing except this. There's no art opening. There is no benefit. There is nothing to sign. There is the next mission and nothing else.

Pepper Potts: Is that so? Well, then, I quit. [Pepper throws the lock chip on the table.]

Tony Stark: You stood by my side all these years while I reaped the benefits of destruction. And now that I'm trying to protect the people that I put in harm's way, you're going to walk out?

Pepper Potts: You're going to kill yourself, Tony. I'm not going to be a part of it.

Tony Stark: I shouldn't be alive, unless it was for a reason. I'm not crazy, Pepper. I just finally know what I have to do. And I know in my heart that it's right.

Pepper Potts: [Pepper picks the lock drive back up.] You're all I have, too, you know. [In Stark's office, Pepper goes on a computer to use the drive.] Sector 16? What are you up to, Obadiah? [She finds a video of Stark held hostage and translates it.]

Video Voice Over: You did not tell us that the target you paid us to kill was the great Tony Stark. As you can see, Obadiah Stane...

Pepper Potts: Oh, my God.

Video Voice Over: ... your deception and lies will cost you dearly. The price to kill Tony Stark has just gone up.

Obadiah Stane: [Walks in on Pepper.] So, what are we going to do about this? I know what you're going through, Pepper. Tony. He always gets the good stuff, doesn't he? I was so happy when he came home. It was like we got him back from the dead. Now I realize, well, Tony never really did come home, did he? He left a part of himself in that cave. Breaks my heart.

Pepper Potts: Well, he's a complicated person. He's been through a lot. I think he'll be all right.

Obadiah Stane: You are a very rare woman. Tony doesn't know how lucky he is.

Pepper Potts: Thank you. Thanks. I'd better get back there. [Pulls the drive out, hiding it under a newspaper.]

Obadiah Stane: Is that today's paper?

Pepper Potts: Yes.

Obadiah Stane: Do you mind?

Pepper Potts: Not at all.

Obadiah Stane: Puzzle.

Pepper Potts: Of course.

Obadiah Stane: Take care. [Goes on the computer and sees that the files have been downloaded.]

Agent Coulson: Ms. Potts? We had an appointment. Did you forget about our appointment?

Pepper Potts: Nope, right now. Come with me.

Agent Coulson: Right now?

Pepper Potts: We're going to have it right now. Yeah, walk with me.

Agent Coulson: Okay.

Pepper Potts: I'm going to give you the meeting of your life. Your office.

William: [On the phone.] Yeah, we've been working our best to do it. Absolutely, we're... I'm going to have to call you back. [Ends the call as Stane walks in] Mr. Stane? Sir, we've explored what you've asked us, and it seems as though there's a little hiccup. Actually...

Obadiah Stane: A hiccup?

William: Yes, to power the suit, sir, the technology actually doesn't exist. So, it's...

Obadiah Stane: Wait, wait, wait. The technology? William, here is the technology. I've asked you to simply make it smaller.

William: Okay, sir, and that's what we're trying to do, but honestly, it's impossible.

Obadiah Stane: Tony Stark was able to build this in a cave! With a box of scraps!

William: Well, I'm sorry. I'm not Tony Stark.

Pepper Potts: [On the phone.] Tony? Tony, are you there? Hello?

Obadiah Stane: [Stuns Stark with the same machine as he did Raza.] Breathe. Easy, easy. You remember this one, right? It's a shame the government didn't approve it. There's so many applications for causing short-term paralysis. Tony. When I ordered the hit on you, I worried that I was killing the golden goose. But, you see, it was just fate that you survived that. [Pulls out the arc reactor from Starks chest.] You had one last golden egg to give. Do you really think that just because you have an idea, it belongs to you? Your father, he helped give us the atomic bomb. Now, what kind of world would it be today if he was as selfish as you? Oh, it's beautiful. Tony, this is your Ninth Symphony. What a masterpiece. Look at that. This is your legacy. A new generation of weapons with this at its heart. Weapons that will help steer the world back on course, put the balance of power in our hands. The right hands. I wish you could've seen my prototype. It's not as... Well, not as conservative as yours. Too bad you had to involve Pepper in this. I would have preferred that she lived.

James Rhodes: [On the phone.] What do you mean, he paid to have Tony killed? Pepper, slow down. Why would Obadiah... Okay, where's Tony now?

Pepper Potts: [On the phone.] I don't know. He's not answering his phone. Please go over there and make sure everything's okay. Thank you, Rhodey. I know a shortcut.

Tony Stark: [Dummy hands Stark Pepper's gift] Good boy.

James Rhodes: Tony? Tony? Tony? Tony? Tony! Tony! You okay?

Tony Stark: Where's Pepper?

James Rhodes: She's fine. She's with five agents. They're about to arrest Obadiah.

Tony Stark: That's not going to be enough.

Pepper Potts: Section 16. Section 16. There it is. My key's not working. It's not opening the door. Oh, wow! What's that? It's, like, a little device. It's, like, a thing that's going to pick the lock?

Agent Coulson: You might want to take a few steps back.

James Rhodes: That's the coolest thing I've ever seen.

Tony Stark: Not bad, huh? Let's do it.

James Rhodes: You need me to do anything else?

Tony Stark: Keep the skies clear.

James Rhodes: Damn! Next time, baby.

Agent Coulson: Looks like you were right. He was building a suit.

Pepper Potts: I thought it'd be bigger.

Tony Stark: How do you think the Mark One chest piece is going to hold up?

JARVIS: The suit's at 48% power and falling, sir. That chest piece was never designed for sustained flight.

Tony Stark: Keep me posted. Pepper!

Pepper Potts: Tony! Tony, are you okay?

Tony Stark: I'm fine. How are...

Pepper Potts: Obadiah, he's gone insane!

Tony Stark: I know. Listen, you'd better get out of there.

Pepper Potts: He built a suit.

Tony Stark: Get out of there right now!

Obadiah Stane: Where do you think you're going? Your services are no longer required.

Tony Stark: Stane!

Obadiah Stane: I love this suit!

Tony Stark: Put them down!

Obadiah Stane: Collateral damage, Tony.

Tony Stark: Divert power to chest RT.

Jarvis: Power reduced to 19%.

Tony Stark: Lady! No, no, no, no, no, no!

Obadiah Stane: For 30 years, I've been holding you up! I built this company from nothing! Nothing is going to stand in my way. Least of all... you! Impressive. You've upgraded your armor! I've made some upgrades of my own!

JARVIS: Sir, it appears that his suit can fly.

Tony Stark: Duly noted. Take me to maximum altitude.

JARVIS: With only 15% power, the odds of reaching that--

Tony Stark: I know the math! Do it!

Soldier 1: Sir, you're not going to believe this. That thing is back.

Soldier 2: Get me Major Allen. Scramble the jets!

James Rhodes: Not necessary, people. Just a training exercise.

Soldier 1: Yes, sir.

JARVIS: Thirteen percent power, sir.

Tony Stark: Climb!

JARVIS: Eleven percent.

Tony Stark: Keep going!

JARVIS: Seven percent power.

Tony Stark: Just leave it on the screen! Stop telling me!

Obadiah Stane: You had a great idea, Tony, but my suit is more advanced in every way!

Tony Stark: How'd you solve the icing problem?

Obadiah Stane: Icing problem?

Tony Stark: Might want to look into it.

JARVIS: Two percent. We are now running on emergency backup power.

Tony Stark: Woah! Potts!

Pepper Potts: Tony! Oh, my God, are you okay?

Tony Stark: I'm almost out of power. I've got to get out of this thing. I'll be right there.

Obadiah Stane: Nice try!

Tony Stark: Weapons status?

JARVIS: Repulsors offline. Missiles offline.

Tony Stark: Flares!

Obadiah Stane: Very clever, Tony.

Tony Stark: Potts?

Pepper Potts: Tony!

Tony Stark: This isn't working. We're going to have to overload the reactor and blast the roof.

Pepper Potts: Well, how are you going to do that?

Tony Stark: You're going to do it. Go to the central console, open up all the circuits. When I get clear of the roof, I'll let you know. You're going to hit the master bypass button. It's going to fry everything up here.

Pepper Potts: Okay. I'm going in now.

Tony Stark: Make sure you wait till I clear the roof. I'll buy you some time. This looks important! [Pulls out a wire from Obadiah Stane's suit.]

Obadiah Stane: I never had a taste for this sort of thing, but I must admit, I'm deeply enjoying the suit! You finally outdid yourself, Tony! You'd have made your father proud!

Pepper Potts: It's ready, Tony! Get off the roof! Tony!

Obadiah Stane: How ironic, Tony! Trying to rid the world of weapons, you gave it its best one ever!

Tony Stark: Pepper!

Obadiah Stane: And now I'm going to kill you with it! You ripped out my targeting system!

Tony Stark: Time to hit the button!

Pepper Potts: You told me not to!

Obadiah Stane: Hold still, you little prick!

Tony Stark: Just do it!

Pepper Potts: You'll die!

Tony Stark: Push it!

Pepper Potts: Tony!

James Rhodes: [On the TV] You've all received the official statement of what occurred at Stark Industries last night. There have been unconfirmed reports that a robotic prototype malfunctioned and caused damage to the arc reactor. Fortunately, a member of Tony Stark's personal security staff...

Tony Stark: "Iron Man." That's kind of catchy. It's got a nice ring to it. I mean, it's not technically accurate. The suit's a gold-titanium alloy, but it's kind of evocative, the imagery, anyway.

Agent Coulson: Here's your alibi.

Tony Stark: Okay?

Agent Coulson: You were on your yacht.

Tony Stark: Yeah.

Agent Coulson: We have port papers that put you in Avalon all night, and sworn statements from 50 of your guests.

Tony Stark: See, I was thinking maybe we should say it was just Pepper and me alone on the island.

Agent Coulson: That's what happened.

Tony Stark: All right.

Agent Coulson: Just read it, word for word.

Tony Stark: There's nothing about Stane here.

Agent Coulson: That's being handled. He's on vacation. Small aircraft have such a poor safety record.

Tony Stark: But what about the whole cover story that it's a bodyguard? He's my... I mean, is that... That's kind of flimsy, don't you think?

Agent Coulson: This isn't my first rodeo, Mr. Stark. Just stick to the official statement, and soon, this will all be behind you. You've got 90 seconds.

Pepper Potts: Agent Coulson? I just wanted to say thank you very much for all of your help.

Agent Coulson: That's what we do. You'll be hearing from us.

Pepper Potts: From the Strategic Homeland...

Agent Coulson: Just call us S.H.I.E.L.D.

Pepper Potts: Right. Let's get this show on the road.

Tony Stark: You know, it's actually not that bad. Even I don't think I'm Iron Man.

Pepper Potts: You're not Iron Man.

Tony Stark: Am so.

Pepper Potts: You're not.

Tony Stark: All right, suit yourself. You know, if I were Iron Man, I'd have this girlfriend who knew my true identity. She'd be a wreck, 'cause she'd always be worrying that I was going to die, yet so proud of the man I'd become. She'd be wildly conflicted, which would only make her more crazy about me. Tell me you never think about that night.

Pepper Potts: What night?

Tony Stark: You know.

Pepper Potts: Are you talking about the night that we danced and went up on the roof, and then you went downstairs to get me a drink, and you left me there, by myself? Is that the night you're talking about? Thought so. Will that be all, Mr. Stark?

Tony Stark: Yes, that will be all, Miss Potts.

James Rhodes: And now, Mr. Stark has prepared a statement. He will not be taking any questions.

Tony Stark: Thank you. Been a while since I was in front of you. I figure I'll stick to the cards this time. There's been speculation that I was involved in the events that occurred on the freeway and the rooftop...

Christine Everhart: I'm sorry, Mr. Stark, but do you honestly expect us to believe that that was a bodyguard in a suit that conveniently appeared, despite the fact that you...

Tony Stark: I know that it's confusing. It is one thing to question the official story, and another thing entirely to make wild accusations, or insinuate that I'm a superhero.

Christine Everhart: I never said you were a superhero.

Tony Stark: Didn't? Well, good, because that would be outlandish and fantastic. I'm just not the hero type. Clearly. With this laundry list of character defects, all the mistakes I've made, largely public.

James Rhodes: Just stick to the cards, man.

Tony Stark: Yeah, okay. Yeah. The truth is... I am Iron Man.

[After end-credits. Tony reaches home]

Tony Stark: Jarvis!

JARVIS: [distorted] Welcome home, Sir. [Jarvis cuts out]

Nick Fury: "I am Iron Man." You think you're the only superhero in the world? Mr. Stark, you've become part of a bigger universe. You just don't know it yet.

Tony Stark: Who the hell are you?

Nick Fury: [appears in light] Nick Fury, Director of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Tony Stark: [nonchalantly] Ah.

Nick Fury: I'm here to talk to you about the Avengers Initiative. 